=== 2023 Global Privacy Predictions (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
2023 Global 
Legislative Predictions
Edited by IAPP Assistant Editor Libby Sweeney

--- Página 2 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
2
2023 Global 
Legislative Predictions
Edited by IAPP Assistant Editor Libby Sweeney
2023 could be dubbed the year data privacy and its relevant legislation come to 
the forefront of Parliaments and presses. In nearly every corner of the world, data 
privacy legislation can be found impacting everyday life — and not just because 
we’re privacy professionals. This year, anticipate jurisdictions to iterate or build 
on pre-existing or proposed legislation to keep up with evolving technology while 
other nations scramble to get some skin in the game and establish a comprehensive 
privacy law. The IAPP gathered predictions from privacy professionals in 56 nations 
across six continents and presented them in this white paper so you can see what 
may play out across the world from on-the-ground experts.
Editor’s note: While we try to include as many countries as possible, we recognize this is not a 
comprehensive list. If you are interested in submitting predictions for a country not featured here, 
please reach out to lsweeney@iapp.org.
  Argentina
Pablo Palazzi
Argentina and the rest of the region will 
continue to be busy during 2023. Argentina’s 
data protection authority, the Agency of 
Access to Public Information, led by Beatriz 
de Anchorena, initiated a public process to 
amend the country’s 22-year-old data protec­
tion law. The proposal of the DPA is based on 
EU General Data Protection principles and 
a draft was subjected to a comment process 
during October 2022. The final bill will be 
ready and submitted to Congress for discus­
sion this year. Hopefully, it will be approved 
at the end of 2023. 
In addition, the enactment of Law No. 27.699 
published in the Official Gazette of the 
Nation on Nov. 30, 2022, meaning Argentina 
adheres to Convention 108+. The purpose of 
the regulation is to ensure the protection of 
individuals regarding automated processing 
of personal data. 
Additionally, Argentina became the first Latin 
American country to obtain an adequacy 
determination by the European Union.

--- Página 3 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
3
  Australia
Keith Eyre, CIPP/E, CIPM, CIPT, FIP
In 2023 we can expect the Privacy Legislation 
Amendment (Enforcement and Other 
Measures) Bill to come into force and see 
further reforms to the Privacy Act.
The Privacy Legislation Amendment 
(Enforcement and Other Measures) Bill 
was introduced and passed by the House 
of Representatives in November 2022. The 
bill was introduced following several major 
data breaches that impacted millions of 
Australians and is expected to become law. If 
the bill comes into force, it will significantly 
increase the penalties for serious or repeated 
privacy breaches and provide the privacy 
commissioner a greater range of compliance 
powers. Note that there is no change to allow 
the Office of the Australian Information 
Commissioner to levy fines directly; it must 
still ask the federal court to levy fines.
By early 2023, the government will have 
completed its Privacy Act review report, 
which will recommend further reforms to the 
act. We can then expect a bill to amend the 
Privacy Act, which, if passed into law, could 
come into effect in the second half of 2023 or 
in 2024. It is possible that a draft bill may be 
made available for consultation before a bill is 
introduced into Parliament.
We can expect the reforms to cover stricter 
requirements for when and how consent is 
obtained, an updated definition of “personal 
information” to include technical data and 
online identifiers, an emphasis on account­
ability for privacy risk management, enhance­
ment of the OAIC’s enforcement powers 
including directly levying fines and further 
rights for individuals.
  Austria
Rainer Knyrim, CIPP/E, CIPM, CIPT
The biggest development for privacy and 
data protection in Austria comes in the form 
of the national implementation of the EU 
Whistleblower Directive. It was implemented 
into Austrian federal law with Austria’s 
Whistleblower Protection Act as well as a 
number of provincial laws only applicable 
in specific provinces of Austria, such as the 
Whistleblower Protection Act-Vienna. 
The federal act requires private companies as 
well as legal entities created by federal law or 
owned by the Austrian state with 50 or more 
employees to establish internal whistleblow­
ing systems. In addition, the law establishes 
pre-existing supervisory authorities (such 
as the Federal Office for the Prevention of 
and Fight against Corruption) as external 
whistleblowing reporting bodies. The federal 
law has not yet passed, but a respective draft 
by the Austrian Parliament has already been 
forwarded to the Federal Ministry of Labour 
and Economy.
The provincial laws require the establish­
ment of internal whistleblowing systems for 
information on infringements related to the 
administrative bodies of the specific province 
and their legal entities. Additionally, they 
require the establishment of external whis­
tleblowing bodies for reporting infringements 
related to provincial parliamentary legisla­
tion. The number of provincial acts varies for 
each province, with some opting for a single, 
all-encompassing act and others regulating 
specific sectors, such as civil servants, in a 
separate act. As of November 2022, there 
exist 14 acts for the nine provinces of Austria.

--- Página 4 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
4
Both the federal and provincial acts aim to 
protect employees, civil servants and interns 
from the potential backlash of reporting 
infringements of the law in the sectors dic­
tated by EU Acts, such as financial services 
and markets, product safety, or the protection 
of privacy and personal data.
Another interesting development can be 
expected concerning the implementation of 
the EU Directive on protection of the col­
lective interests, which would introduce the 
possibility of a class action lawsuit against 
certain law infringements by companies. 
Violations of the GDPR are explicitly men­
tioned as an example. Although the transpo­
sition deadline ended Dec. 25, 2022, actual 
implementation can be expected this year.
  Belgium
Diletta de Cicco, CIPP/E
Charles Helleputte, CIPP/E
2022 was a bumpy year for data protection 
in Belgium, at least when looking at its pri­
mary enforcer, the Belgian Data Protection 
Authority. 2023 will serve as a year zero for 
the renewed ADP 2.0. Following too many 
press headlines, resignations and an infringe­
ment procedure launched by the European 
Commission, the time for a reshuffle in leader­
ship has come. Historic and prominent figures 
were dismissed or resigned; new leadership 
took the rein of a reorganized body mid-2022. 
This year will serve as a test case on at least 
three majors fronts for the ADP: 
•	 Deliver on the use of codes of conduct 
as a transfer mechanism in the cloud 
area, a matter that has less to do with the 
pioneer position of Brussels in the sector 
and more to do with the country (in par­
ticular its capital) being home to many 
trade associations (and you can also say 
cloudy sky, if you happen to live here).
•	 Confront its reasoning in the 
International Advertising Bureau Europe 
case with the outcome of the proceeding 
that is pending in front of the Court of 
Justice of the European Union, which 
could have far-reaching implications.
•	 Lodge a call for additional funding with 
the government to prepare — on time 
for once —  to deal with the upcoming 
new roles the ADP will play in the future, 
including following the upcoming adop­
tion of the EU Artificial Intelligence Act. 
2023 will finally be the last chance for stra­
tegic progresses in the long list of EU digital 
files (the AI Act, the Data Act, etc.) as well 
as the progressive entry into force of those 
files already adopted at the EU level. Their 
impact will reshape the landscape across the 
EU, including the stakeholder interest in the 
legislative process concentrated in Belgium.
  Bermuda
Nancy Volesky, CIPP/US
Destined to be a landmark year for privacy 
evolution in Bermuda, the government will 
finally implement the Personal Information 
Protection Act 2016, using a phased-in 
approach. While it is not clear what parts of 
the PIPA will come into force initially, orga­
nizations should be completing preparations 
to ensure full compliance in any case. In 
tandem, the government has on its agenda a 
few amendments to the PIPA, but they are not 
expected to be significant. 
Other changes anticipated will be the result 
of complex work done to harmonize the PIPA 
and the 2010 Public Access to Information Act 
(addressing freedom of information) — legis­
lation will be introduced to this effect. Efforts 
also continue on both the harmonization of 
the PIPA and the Electronic Transactions Act, 
1999, as well as the development of a robust 
cybersecurity framework for the country.

--- Página 5 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
5
It is anticipated that Privacy Commissioner 
Alexander White, CIPP/A, CIPP/C, CIPP/E, 
CIPP/G, CIPP/US, CIPM, CIPT, FIP, will pro­
ceed with staffing up his office, expanding 
its outreach and providing further resources, 
training and compliance capabilities in antici­
pation of the active year ahead. 
On the international privacy front, all eyes 
are on Bermuda in late October, as the island 
hosts the 2023 Global Privacy Assembly. 
Welcomed by Commissioner White, global 
privacy regulators, data protection regulators 
and policymakers will meet for a week of 
activities and deliberations.
  Bolivia
Ana Valeria Escobar Romano
2023 is likely to be a year of important 
changes in data privacy and protection 
for Bolivia. 
Bolivia has recently been in a political tur­
moil, where changes in government gave 
greater preponderance to the economic recov­
ery of the country. This meant putting on 
hold all the projects promoted by civil society 
related to privacy, causing them to be shelved 
by the legislative body. 
However, as a state agency, the Agencia 
de Gobierno Electronico y Tecnologias de 
Informacion y Comunicacion has started to 
promote regulation on this matter by propos­
ing a legal draft.
The AGETIC’s proposal is a new crusade where 
a body of the government seeks to implement 
data protection rules, close to the EU GDPR, 
putting Bolivia at the forefront of personal 
data protection regulations. 
The project is currently being socialized and 
commented on by experts for future consider­
ation by a legislative commission. This would 
allow it to be reviewed by the legislature and 
Senate on the second half of 2023.
  Brazil
Angela Bittencourt da Fonseca, 
CIPP/E, CIPM, CDPO/BR
Brazil’s DPA, the Autoridade Nacional de 
Protecao de Dados, released a handy hint 
in November 2022: the much-expected 
Regulatory Schedule for 2023-2024, divided 
into four phases. The first phase starts with 
12 outstanding themes from the previous 
2021-2022 schedule, and the second phase, 
comprising of four themes, will start within 
the upcoming year. The third and fourth 
phases won’t start until mid-2024.
The choice of themes reflect that the ANPD 
— which was upgraded in 2022 to an auton­
omous federal agency — has been building 
a solid foundation for the enforcement of 
monetary penalties for legal infractions, and 
for setting forth rules to other governmental 
entities’ data processing activities. In addi­
tion, the ANPD has been quite responsive 
to the concerns and FAQs from the privacy 
community: The DPA consolidated many 
topics the General Data Protection Law left 
“to be further regulated,” such as certain data 
subject rights, communication of security 
incidents, international data transfers, impact 
assessment reports for high-risk processing 
activities, processing of children’s data, best 
practices and data governance.
On the legislative front, the Senate has 
been drafting a bill for artificial intelligence, 
which includes ethical use, fundamental 
rights, personal data, accountability, data 
mining and copyright. The work group has 
emphasized the need for a comprehensive law 
with a “risk-based approach,” including “algo­
rithm impact assessments” and “high-risk 
activities.” It will probably mature into law 
this year, sooner than the ANPD’s ruling on

--- Página 6 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
6
AI in automated decision-making, which is 
expected for 2024 only, on the third phase.
Another Senate bill worth following covers 
tax incentives for companies adapting to 
the LGPD and other privacy regulations by 
compensating expenses from the adaptation, 
such as retention of privacy professionals and 
specialized software subscription, from their 
taxable income.
  Canada
Shaun Brown
There are at least two significant develop­
ments to watch for in 2023. First, although 
the changes under Bill 64 in Quebec began 
September 2022, most of the changes take 
effect September 2023. Organizations doing 
business in Quebec will need to consider how 
to comply with new requirements that are not 
always clear, while the under-resourced DPA, 
the Commission d’acces a l’information du 
Quebec, struggles to keep up with demand for 
guidance. The new penalties inspired by the 
GDPR will introduce a level of risk not seen in 
Canada since Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation 
came into effect in 2014.
Bill C-27 was introduced in June 2022. The 
federal bill would replace the Personal 
Information Protection and Electronic 
Documents Act with the Consumer Privacy 
Protection Act and also create the Artificial 
Intelligence and Data Act. With no election 
on the near horizon, there is no good reason 
why the bill shouldn’t be finalized in 2023. At 
minimum, the bill should be reviewed by the 
House of Commons Standing Committee on 
Industry and Technology, which will hope­
fully lead to improvements.
By now, the Ontario government should have 
had time to digest comments received on 
its consultations on privacy modernization 
on Ontario, which includes a proposal to 
develop new private-sector privacy legislation. 
Comments were due September 2021, so 
we should have an idea by the end of 2023 
whether this initiative will move ahead or 
fizzle out.
  Chile
Maria Jose Diaz
Javiera Sepulveda
Many changes are expected in the regula­
tory field of Chile in 2023. Though we still 
wait for the bill that will modify the privacy 
protection law to pass, the bill did make 
made considerable progress in 2022. However, 
the legislative discussion will take longer 
than expected as the Chamber of Deputies 
has introduced several changes to the text 
approved by the Senate; therefore, the bill 
shall be discussed in a “Mix Commission” 
(composed of deputies and senators). It is 
expected to finally be approved and passed 
this year. 
Another intense discussion that will continue 
is the bill that Establishes a Framework Law 
on Cybersecurity and Critical Information 
Infrastructure. Particularly, this bill creates a 
regulatory framework necessary for the devel­
opment of cybersecurity, both in its opera­
tional and regulatory dimensions, regarding 
CII. The bill sets forth criteria to determine 
if a public or private institution has CII, 
and it creates new public institutions that 
aim to ensure cybersecurity at the national 
and sectoral levels, including the National 
Cybersecurity Agency.
Finally, smaller yet no less critical bills are 
being discussed in Congress, such as a bill 
to regulate digital platforms — particularly 
rights and obligations addressed to agents, 
providers, users and consumers of digital 
platforms — and a bill presented in October 
2022 that establishes the right to be forgotten 
in financial matters.

--- Página 7 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
7
  China
Barbara Li
2022 was a remarkable year in China’s data 
regime, as the Cybersecurity Administration 
of China (China’s central data regulator), 
either individually or jointly with other 
Chinese central regulators, issued or adopted 
a considerable number of important rules to 
facilitate the implementation of China’s three 
major data laws: the Personal Information 
Protection Law, Data Security Law and 
Cybersecurity Law. The CAC clarified the 
legal mechanisms and relevant compliance 
requirements and procedures. With the new 
rules, guidelines, national standards and draft 
standard contractual clauses for cross-border 
data transfers, business organizations now 
have more clarity and a better tool for 
self-assessment according to their specific 
business scenarios and can determine the 
proper mechanism for making outward trans­
fers of locally generated data collected abroad. 
2022 also witnessed a significant 
breakthrough in enforcement actions taken 
by Chinese data regulators. Multiple rounds of 
investigations of noncompliance of the PIPL, 
DSL and CSL were done by the governmental 
authorities. Thousands of mobile applications 
were removed from app stores. The CAC 
imposed a record-high fine of approximately 
US$1.2 billion on a major Chinese internet 
company for various violations of China’s 
data and cybersecurity rules, including illegal 
collection of personal information without 
the proper authorization from data subjects 
and excessive collection of sensitive personal 
information, such as geolocation information 
and facial recognition images. Two senior 
management individuals of that company 
were each fined approximately US$140,000. 
The forthcoming 2023 will continue to be 
a busy year in terms of data legislation 
and enforcement developments. Earlier in 
2022, the lawmaking body issued the draft 
amendments to the CSL, and CAC issued 
the draft Measures on Administrative 
Enforcement Procedures for public comment. 
The proposed amendments to the CSL pur­
port to significantly increase penalties: A 
corporate violator would face a fine of up to 
approximately US$7 million or 5% of the last 
year’s turnover and the senior executives 
would face a fine of up to approximately 
US$140,000. The regulations on critical infor­
mation infrastructures and important data 
are also expected to be finalized and so is the 
draft standard contract for cross-border data 
transfers, as they have all gone through public 
consultation and have been heavily discussed 
among lawmaking bodies, industry regulators 
and key stakeholders. 
On the enforcement front, March will be 
an important milestone, as the grace period 
for security assessments for cross-border 
data transfers will expire end of February. 
Enforcement actions are anticipated against 
noncompliant business organizations 
next March. 
Mobile apps have been the primary targets 
for enforcement in the past 12 months and 
this trend will continue, given China is the 
largest mobile app market in the world. The 
authorities are expected to adopt a wide range 
of enforcement measures including order 
for rectification within a prescribed period, 
suspension of app operation, removal of 
apps from the app store, and imposing fines 
on the app operator and senior executives. 
Investigations for complying with multilevel 
protection schemes and data classification 
requirements under the CSL and DSL will 
remain active, especially in regulated indus­
tries of financial, health care, technology, 
transportation, energy and public utilities.

--- Página 8 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
8
  Colombia
Luis Alberto Montezuma, FIP
2022 ended with the entry into force of 
the reform to the Credit Reporting Act, 
embedding strong accountability measures 
by requiring credit providers and credit 
reporting agencies to take reasonable steps 
to establish and maintain internal practices, 
procedures and systems that ensure indi­
viduals’ interest in protecting their personal 
data. The law also works in compliance with 
other law, ensuring that credit providers have 
sufficient information available to assist them 
in deciding whether to provide an individual 
with credit or service.
The legal system governing privacy and 
data protection in Colombia has its roots 
in Articles 15 and 20 of the Colombian 
Constitution. The Constitutional Court of 
Colombia ruled that foreign nationals are 
also the subject of fundamental rights. In a 
recent judgment, the Constitutional Court 
ensured the right to the protection of per­
sonal data for an Israeli citizen and ordered 
Colombia’s national police to provide access to 
the personal data relating to criminal con­
victions and offenses the entity holds about 
the person.
To facilitate the use of binding corporate rules 
for controllers as a mechanism to transfer 
personal data between data controllers within 
the same group, the Executive Decree 255 
of 2022 establishes the Controller Binding 
Corporate Rules scheme in accordance 
with Article 27 of Colombia’s general data 
protection framework, Law 1581 of 2012. 
Companies can apply through the website 
of Colombia’s DPA, the Superintendencia de 
Industria y Comercio.
The Dubai International Financial Centre 
Commissioner of Data Protection issued 
a decision recognizing the equivalence of 
the Colombia data protection regime for 
international transfers. Colombia seeks an 
adequacy decision from both the European 
Commission and the U.K. Secretary of State.
2023 promises to be an exciting year for 
data protection in Colombia. The president 
of Colombia is expected to appoint the new 
Superintendence of Industry and Commerce 
of Colombia, which is responsible for 
appointing the new Superintendent Delegate 
for the Protection of Personal Data. The 
Superintendent Delegate is responsible for 
monitoring the application of Colombia’s gen­
eral data protection framework through guid­
ance, supervision and enforcement. The new 
government has shown no interest in modify­
ing the current Law 1581 of 2012, inspired by 
the EU’s Data Protection Directive.
  Czech Republic
Frantisek Nonnemann, CIPP/E
Since January 2022, new rules for the use 
of cookies and telemarketing have come 
into effect in the Czech Republic. The opt-in 
principle was introduced in both cases. The 
Czech Republic’s DPA, the Urad pro ochranu 
osobnich udaju, issued guidance for both areas 
and will continue focusing on them in 2023. 
Legislative change of the basic identifier of 
natural persons should be completed in the 
Czech Republic this year. The current system 
of birth numbers was introduced as an identi­
fication for the state social insurance system, 
but its use gradually spread to the entire 
public and a large part of the private sector. It 
reveals birthdate and gender of a citizen, but 
its use increased risk of linking information 
from different databases and ID theft. In 
2025, the birth numbers will be discontinued, 
especially in the private sector. From January 
2024, the birth number is to be removed from 
national ID cards and a national system of 
basic registers should fully replace them.

--- Página 9 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
9
A general whistleblowing law is also antic­
ipated in 2023. The draft law that trans­
poses the corresponding EU Whistleblower 
Directive has already been published, and its 
effectiveness is expected in the second half 
of 2023. There are two important aspects 
from a data privacy point of view: For many 
private and public organizations, new obliga­
tions to receive and respond to notifications 
about possible privacy protection violations 
will be introduced. At the same time, this 
raises several questions about how to process 
and protect personal data within the entire 
whistleblowing process.
We do not expect any further significant 
legislative changes with direct impact on 
the protection of personal data in the Czech 
Republic this year. The year 2023 will instead 
be an opportunity to breathe before the wave 
of new regulation from the EU. From the 
NIS 2 and the digital operational resilience 
act to the Data Act, Artificial Intelligence 
Regulation and the Digital Services Act 
package, coming years will be interesting for 
the data and cybersecurity regulation.
  Ecuador
Rafael Serrano
Pablo Dent
Christian Razza
2023 will be a year of great importance for 
privacy and data protection in Ecuador. It has 
been a year and a half since the enactment 
of the Personal Data Protection Law. Both 
the private and public sectors are implement­
ing the law. 
The presidency is working on the regulation 
of the Data Protection Law, which is expected 
to publish early this year. This regulation will 
include specific topics such as the headquar­
ters of the data protection superintendence, 
the personal data protection delegate and 
its functions, the auxiliary control system, 
control mechanisms, and procedures for the 
exercise of rights recognized in the law.
The creation of Ecuador’s Personal Data 
Protection Authority is expected early this 
year as well. The authority will be a superin­
tendency. The presidency will send the short­
list to the Council of Citizen Participation (the 
body in charge of the appointment) of possi­
ble superintendents and once selected, they 
will oversee organizing and implementing the 
superintendency. Delays in the creation of the 
superintendency have generated uncertainty 
regarding the application of the law.
The sanctioning regime will enter into force 
May 26. Fines for minor infractions will be 
from 0.1% to 0.7% of the turnover and seri­
ous infractions from 0.7% to 1% of the total 
turnover of the preceding year. In addition 
to the sanctions, the authority may impose 
corrective measures, which may include the 
surcease of processing, deletion of the data 
and imposition of technical, legal, organiza­
tional or administrative measures to ensure 
proper processing of personal data.
This year will be the first year in which both 
the private and public sectors will have to 
implement a new regulatory system. There 
is great uncertainty as to how the superin­
tendency will act; there remains doubt as to 
whether it will be an educating or sanctioning 
entity in its first months.
  Ethiopia
Yohannes Eneyew Ayalew
2022 highlighted the need to enact a compre­
hensive data protection law in Ethiopia. This 
year we can expect to see the introduction of 
the Data Protection Proclamation and further 
headway on the Ethiopian government’s 
commitment to establish an independent DPA. 
The Proclamation to Provide for Personal Data 
Protection, released in 2020 as an exposure

--- Página 10 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
10
draft under the sponsorship of the Ministry of 
Science and Technology, seeks to regulate the 
processing of personal data and the protection 
of fundamental rights — and in particular an 
individual’s right to privacy — with regard to 
automatic processing of personal data. 
Moreover, the draft proclamation defines 
the rights and duties of data controllers 
and processors, governs data transfers and 
introduces a system that ensures a strong 
culture of personal data protection. Most of 
the provisions of the draft proclamation such 
as data subjects’ rights and principles of data 
processing are drawn from the EU GDPR. As 
a result, the long arm of the GDPR commonly 
referred to as the “Brussels Effect” is visible in 
its operative provisions.
Ethiopia is yet to establish an independent 
DPA. Thus, in order to enhance individuals’ 
and groups’ control over their data, the 
forthcoming proclamation amongst other 
things needs to facilitate and create a strong 
and independent DPA as suggested by civil 
societies. It is hoped that the government 
will establish a freestanding and independent 
DPA by expressly granting the body with the 
institutional capability through budgeting, 
staffing, implied powers and jurisdictional 
competency, as well as guarantees against the 
interferences of private actors — mainly data 
controllers and market players. 
However, there is a growing concern toward 
the rolling out of digital IDs by the Ethiopian 
National ID Office as the practice flouts the 
data protection and privacy rights of millions 
of Ethiopians. Given that the country is ruled 
by an ethnic federal system, the digital ID 
system could be misused by authorities unless 
backed by a proper data protection impact 
assessment and an adequate data protection 
law. Rolling out digital ID without observing 
these conditions is like putting the cart before 
the horse.
All the same, the commencement of private 
telecommunications in 2022 and further 
liberalizations of the market may serve as a 
catalyst for a robust data privacy initiative in 
Ethiopia. Finally, let’s hope that there will be a 
major breakthrough in 2023, the proclamation 
will be enacted and the DPA will be estab­
lished independently.
  EU
Isabelle Roccia
2023 will be a year of continued legislative 
change in Europe — the rush to the finish 
line for EU legislators and implementation for 
privacy professionals as data protection rules 
become increasingly intricate across Europe. 
New rules enacted in the EU in 2022 will go 
into effect this year and beyond. In the data 
governance realm, these policies primarily 
touch on data sharing, content moderation, 
targeted advertising, transparency and 
cybersecurity. In addition, EU policymakers 
are negotiating further policies that may 
wrap up before the next EU legislative cycle 
soft-launches early 2024. Proposals currently 
on the table focus on artificial intelligence 
governance and liability, sectoral rules for 
data sharing (particularly in the health space), 
children’s protection online and industrial 
data governance.
Enforcement of the GDPR and other 
privacy-related rules will also remain a 
priority for the European Commission and 
regulators alike. After a record year for 
GDPR noncompliance fines, enforcement is 
expected to ramp up in 2023. The European 
Data Protection Board is expected to launch 
its second coordinated enforcement action 
in February, with a focus on the designation 
and position of the DPO. The objective of 
the action will be to safeguard the position 
of DPO and its importance in organizations. 
Participating DPAs will conduct coordinated 
actions and evidence-gathering throughout

--- Página 11 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
11
the year, leading to an end-of-year report that 
may include follow-up enforcement actions at 
a national level or guidance on an EDPB level.
Several significant cases are pending before 
national regulators and the Court of Justice 
of the European Union, which could lead to 
transformative decisions for privacy profes­
sionals in the next year on areas ranging from 
children’s data, employee data processing, 
transfer mechanisms and more. 
  Finland
Eija Warma-Lehtinen, CIPP/E
The Nordic DPAs had their annual meeting in 
Helsinki in October where they decided some 
common goals. 
In 2023, Finland’s employee privacy law, 
the Act on the Protection of Privacy in 
Working Life, will be amended regarding 
collection of applicant/employee data. It 
is worth noting that Finland has specific 
employee privacy laws in addition to the 
GDPR and that Finland’s DPA, the Office 
of the Data Protection Ombudsman, has 
given several decisions (including fines) for 
noncompliance of those laws. Also, the new 
whistleblowing directive will be implemented 
and controllers must draft data protection 
documentation, including a data protection 
impact assessment, in order to implement the 
channel properly. 
The ombudsman recently launched the 
two-year project GDPR4CHLDRN together 
with the Finnish Information Society 
Development Centre that provides informa­
tion on the processing of personal data to 
associations that organize leisure activities 
for children. The project, among other things, 
will create tools to support the application of 
data protection legislation by children’s and 
youth clubs as well as improve awareness of 
children, young people and their parents. 
The ombudsman receives approximately 
10,000 new cases per year; about half of 
them are data breach notifications. The DPA 
actively reports their cases and decisions, 
which are increasingly appealed to the admin­
istrative courts. We can expect several inter­
esting court decisions in the coming year. 
  France
Cecile Martin
Among the various privacy trends we can 
anticipate for France this year, we can proba­
bly mention the sphere of the working world 
and the willingness of France’s DPA, the 
Commission nationale de l’informatique et 
des libertes, to regulate the increasing collec­
tion of personal data on smartphone apps. 
Indeed, whether it is in the recruitment pro­
cess, work contracts, attendance or interviews, 
companies have considerably invested in arti­
ficial intelligence. While not new, this massive 
arrival of algorithms in the work environment 
can systematize biases that could deprive 
certain job applicants or employees from 
opportunities in terms of hiring or promotion. 
It is therefore highly likely that litigation 
related to these issues will increase.
With regard to the collection of personal data 
by apps, the CNIL announced in its 2022-2024 
strategic plan that, in view of the opacity of 
technologies and the heterogeneity of prac­
tices, it aims to make data flows visible and 
strengthen the compliance of apps in order to 
better protect the privacy of users. In order to 
implement this strategy, the CNIL intends to 
focus on certain topics to raise the awareness 
among users and lead a European version of 
the approach.

--- Página 12 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
12
  Germany
Ernst O. Wilhelm, CIPP/E, CIPM, CIPT, FIP
The European Commission’s Data Act, which 
is intended to facilitate a framework for fair 
and innovative data sharing (both personal 
and non-personal), is expected to be adopted 
this year. This proposed regulation will have a 
massive impact on the German economy. 
Along with major relevance of the auto­
motive industry, according to the German 
Association of the Automotive Industry, 
“modern vehicles generate around 25 giga­
bytes of data material per hour,” including 
but not limited to mileage, speed, location 
and driving behavior. The dispute about 
the best way to use and share this data has 
already gained momentum this year by the 
so-called ADAXO proposal from the German 
Association of the Automotive Industry 
and by a counterproposal giving more 
emphasis on the rights of the data subjects 
from the Federation of German Consumer 
Organisations. This discussion is expected to 
intensify this year in course of the finaliza­
tion of the EU Data Act and the discussion of 
the planned German Mobility Data Act.
Last year, the European Commission launched 
the European Health Data Space, which aims 
to offer a trustworthy framework for primary 
use of health data by the patient and for sec­
ondary use cases including research, innova­
tion, policymaking and regulatory activities. 
The Federal Association of Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers recently published a statement 
claiming the need for access to patient data 
for the development of commercial health 
products and services. Only a few days later, 
the German DPAs released the so-called 
“Peterburger Declaration,” emphasizing the 
rights and freedoms of the data subjects. The 
dispute is expected to intensify this year in 
the course of the discussion of the draft of 
the Federal Ministry of Health for a Patient 
Data Protection Law, in particular regarding 
whether opt-in, opt-out or broad consent 
should be required for the use of patient data 
for research purposes.
  Greece
Antonios Broumas, CIPP/E
Compared to 2022, the national elections 
taking place in this coming spring are 
expected to influence the pace of data protec­
tion legislative developments and supervisory 
activity in the country.
An amendment of national data protection 
Law 4624/2019 has already been put into 
public consultation, following a letter of 
formal notice by the European Commission 
initiating the infringement procedure against 
Greece for failure to adequately transpose the 
Law Enforcement Directive. Apart from the 
LED, another amendment of Law 4624/2019 is 
bound to take place within the year, this time 
improving its provisions supplementing the 
GDPR. These twin amendments are expected 
to upgrade national data protection legislation 
to the benefit of public bodies, businesses and 
data subjects. 
Other developments will mainly concern the 
implementation of EU cybersecurity legis­
lation and the enactment of supplementary 
national legislation for major EU Acts, such as 
the Digital Services Act, Markets Act, Media 
Freedom Act and AI Act.
At the level of supervision, the Hellenic Data 
Protection Authority is expected to reap the 
benefits of its internal organizational restruc­
turing, keep pace with supervisory interven­
tions and milestone decisions at the same or 
similar level as in 2022, and gain ground on 
its backlog of pending cases. Nevertheless, 
the HDPA is likely not bound to take major 
horizontal or sectoral initiatives for the regu­
lation or supervision of the market until next 
fall, when the newly convened Parliament will

--- Página 13 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
13
be required to appoint its new head. In any 
case, the HDPA shall strictly align with the 
EDPB fine calculation criteria in its upcoming 
jurisprudence and impose increased sanctions 
to obligated entities, indicating to markets the 
high level of compliance maturity expected 
by them.
  Hong Kong
Timothy Ma, CIPP/E, CIPM
Kieran Donovan
In 2023, doxxing is expected to remain a 
major area of focus and active enforcement by 
Hong Kong’s DPA, the Privacy Commissioner 
for Personal Data. The PCPD made eight 
arrests against individuals for doxxing-related 
acts in 2022, and the first conviction for a 
doxxing offense was handed down in October. 
In the PCPD’s 2021-22 annual report, the 
PCPD emphasized its efforts in combatting 
doxxing, reporting that since the commence­
ment of the amended Personal Data (Privacy) 
Ordinance, it has handled 928 doxxing cases, 
issued over 600 cessation notices to various 
online platforms and commenced criminal 
investigations into 65 cases.
The PCPD also noted it will continue to work 
with the Hong Kong government in reviewing 
the PDPO, with a view to formulating sub­
stantial legislative proposals to align with the 
international norms and regulatory practices. 
Discussions on such updates to the PDPO 
began January 2020, when the Constitutional 
and Mainland Affairs Bureau proposed certain 
amendments, including establishing a man­
datory data breach notification mechanism, 
requiring data users to devise a data retention 
period policy, empowering the PCPD to hand 
down administrative fines and directly reg­
ulating data processors. Whilst the timeline 
for the review is still unclear, this appears to 
also be an area of focus for the PCPD in 2023. 
Concrete legislative proposals are expected to 
be formulated as the next step.
In July 2022, Hong Kong’s Law Reform 
Commission issued its consultation paper on 
Cyber-Dependent Crimes and Jurisdictional 
Issues, setting out proposals for a new cyber­
crime legislation (including the introduction 
of five new offenses) to address cybercrimes 
and cybersecurity in connection with advance­
ments in information technology and the risk 
of exploitation for criminal purposes. This 
paper is the first of three to be published by 
the LRC, with the other papers expected to be 
published this year and focus on cyber-enabled 
crimes, macro challenges in the digital age, 
and evidentiary and enforcement issues.
  Hungary
Tamas Bereczki, CIPP/E
Adam Liber, CIPP/E, CIPM, FIP
We do not expect the adoption of any mate­
rial new rules in privacy and data protection 
in Hungary in 2023. The main reason is 
Hungary’s priority to resolve the corruption 
allegations by the European Commission 
and access cohesion and recovery funding 
from the EU. In response to the allegations, 
Hungary has introduced various legislative 
reforms and an anti-corruption authority 
with wide investigative powers.
We predict that the enforcement and fines 
will continue to increase on the part of 
Hungary’s DPA, the National Authority for 
Data Protection and Freedom of Information. 
The NAIH priorities include direct marketing 
activities and customer satisfaction surveys, 
artificial intelligence and machine learning, 
CCTV and video surveillance issues, and the 
use of Google Analytics, cookies and similar 
technologies. Targeted sectors include the 
financial sector, debt collection activities and 
call center operators. Digital services will 
remain among the enforcement priorities of 
the Hungarian Competition Authority, which 
targets consumer data use activities and 
dark patterns.

--- Página 14 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
14
  India
Pranav Rai
A key development to watch out for in 2023 
will be the progression of India’s new proposed 
Digital Personal Data Protection Bill. The 
Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology will hold a wide public consultation 
before introducing it in the Parliament. 
This is the fourth version of a personal 
data protection law since 2017 — the year 
the Supreme Court of India held privacy to 
an inalienable and inherent fundamental 
right guaranteed under the Constitution of 
India. Since then, the government’s efforts to 
develop a comprehensive data protection law 
only gained momentum.
The explanatory note to the bill suggests it 
will establish a comprehensive legal frame­
work governing digital personal data protec­
tion in India and that the government has 
considered the global best practices (which 
includes “prospective federal legislation of the 
United States of America”). The bill is a com­
pact one, containing 30 sections — the earlier 
bill had more than 90 — but seems to have a 
disproportionate share of potentially contro­
versial issues, such as: questionable indepen­
dence of the DPA, the Data Protection Board; 
broad exemptions in the “public interest” 
(defined to include “preventing dissemination 
of false statements”) and for “instrumen­
tality of the State;” certain unusual duties 
(accompanied by penalty) imposed on data 
subjects (e.g., to ensure that the information 
furnished is “verifiably authentic”); and 
perhaps most vital, several issues left at the 
discretion of the executive under the govern­
ment’s rulemaking power (with inadequate 
Parliamentary oversight).
The bill may not be an ideal personal data 
protection law, but the alacrity with which 
the government has approached this bill — in 
stark contrast to the manner it handled the 
2019 bill — deserves due praise. It was quick 
and judicious in withdrawing the earlier 2019 
bill, drafting this bill, and timing the public 
consultations so the consultation period 
ends before the start of the budget session 
of Parliament, thus increasing its chances to 
introduce the bill in Parliament early 2023.
  Indonesia
Glenn Wijaya
The Law No. 27 Year 2022 on Personal Data 
Protection, enacted Oct. 17, 2022, envisages 
there will be at least two implementing 
regulations: a government regulation and a 
presidential regulation. 
The government regulation will specify 
the following:
•	 Submission of objections to automatic 
processing (Article 10). 
•	 Violations of the processing of personal 
data and procedures for the imposition of 
compensation (Article 12).
•	 Rights of personal data subjects to use 
and transmit personal data (Article 13).
•	 Personal data protection impact assess­
ments (Article 34).
•	 Notification procedures (Article 48).
•	 Transfer of personal data (Article 56).
•	 Imposition of administrative sanctions 
(Article 57).
•	 Provisions on the procedures to 
implement the authorities of the PDP 
Institution (Article 61).
Meanwhile, the presidential regulation will 
set out the details about the future DPA, the 
PDP Institution (Article 58).
According to the Minister of Communications 
and Informatics, the government of Indonesia 
is now preparing the presidential regulation 
and other implementing regulations (without 
specifying what these are).

--- Página 15 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
15
The PDP Law was originally anticipated to 
be promulgated in 2021, followed by one PDP 
Law implementing regulation (which the 
author believes is the said government regu­
lation), one PDP Law implementing regulation 
establishing the PDP Law’s implementation 
institution (which the author believes is the 
said presidential regulation) to come this year, 
and the establishment of three training insti­
tutions for DPOs, all of which would occur 
successively, one year apart from one another.
However, given that the PDP Law was only 
enacted October 2022, we should anticipate 
that its implementing regulations will not 
be issued until some time this year, the PDP 
Institution will not be established until 2024, 
and the establishment of training institutions 
will not happen until 2025.
  Ireland
Kate Colleary, CIPP/E, CIPM
The Data Sharing and Governance Act 2019 
introduced requirements for the sharing 
of information (including personal data) 
between public bodies. It provides a legal 
basis for public bodies to share this data. 
The 2019 Act also established the Data 
Governance Board, base registries and the 
Personal Data Access Portal. The aim is to 
reduce the administrative burden associated 
with the need for individuals to provide their 
personal data to numerous public bodies. The 
final phase of the DSGA’s commencement 
occurred Dec. 16, 2022. Thus, 2023 is the first 
year where the DSGA is fully operational.
2023 is also the second year the Data 
Protection Commission seeks to implement 
its 2022-2027 Regulatory Strategy. The 
strategy consists of five goals:
1.	 Regulate consistently and effectively.
2.	 Safeguard individuals and promote data 
protection awareness.
3.	 Prioritize the protection of children and 
other vulnerable groups.
4.	 Bring clarity to stakeholders.
5.	 Support organizations and drive 
compliance. 
The DPC will continue to prioritize com­
plaints of systemic importance and will 
seek a collective approach to enforcement 
throughout Europe.
The deadline for the transposition of the 
EU Representative Actions Directive (EU) 
2020/1828 was Dec. 25, 2022. The General 
Scheme of the Representative Actions for 
the Protection of the Collective Interests 
of Consumers Bill 2022 will implement the 
collective redress mechanisms set out in the 
directive. This legislation, which is set to take 
effect in June, will be the first piece of legis­
lation in Ireland to set out a legal procedure 
for group action. It will undoubtedly have a 
significant impact on the litigation of data 
protection actions in Ireland.
2023 is likely to continue the trend of inves­
tigations, significant fines and appeals and 
will likely be (yet another) busy year for 
privacy pros.
  Israel
Dan Or-Hof, CIPP/E, CIPP/US, CIPM, FIP
The discussions between the EU and Israel on 
the continuance of the 2011 adequacy recog­
nition are still underway with no published 
end date. On Oct. 2, 2022, as an effort to 
maintain the adequacy recognition, the Israeli 
government established the independent 
status of its DPA, the Protection of Privacy 
Authority, through a government resolution. 
Furthermore, as an additional effort the 
satisfy the EU counterparties, the Israeli 
Ministry of Justice promoted the enactment 
of new regulations under the Protection of 
Privacy Law, which will provide additional

--- Página 16 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
16
protection to personal data that originates 
from the EU. 
The additional protections include the right 
of erasure and enhanced provisions related 
to data retention, data accuracy and the duty 
to inform via privacy notices. This effort was 
heavily scrutinized by privacy practitioners 
and scholars, who urged the Ministry of 
Justice to enact regulations that will apply the 
proposed additional rights to all personal data. 
As a result of frequent elections in Israel, 
substantial amendments to the PPL are still 
pending. It remains to be seen if the current 
government will move forward with the enact­
ment of the amending bills, which include 
providing the PPA with substantial enforce­
ment powers and considerably reducing the 
mandatory database registration obligation. 
Class actions associated with privacy viola­
tions involving claims related to unlawful data 
sharing, processing without consent, insuffi­
cient privacy notices and insufficient informa­
tion security controls continue to be on the 
rise and are a dominant privacy-related risk.
  Italy
Rocco Panetta, CIPP/E
Since 2022 proved to be a very busy year for 
Italy and its DPA, the Garante, this likely 
presages an equally intense 2023.
The DPA’s interest in protecting minors and 
educating citizens to a greater awareness 
of what privacy is and its importance con­
tinued. On the one hand, the dialogue with 
social networks such as TikTok remains. On 
the other hand, the Garante signed several 
agreements bringing these issues to televi­
sion and schools. Presented alongside other 
projects that covered the data economy 
scenario, the heart of the project was pre­
sented at the State of Privacy ‘22 initiative 
— attended by 250 private and public 
experts, including European Data Protection 
Supervisor Wojciech Wiewiorowski — to 
gather ideas around the major themes of the 
data economy. 
In the past year, some media companies asked 
readers to pay a subscription fee if they do 
not want to be profiled. This issue and poten­
tial reaction from the Garante will lay the 
foundation for future data economy deci­
sions. Professionals in the sector are divided 
between more conservative views and consid­
ering this possibility valid. This debate will 
see an acceleration in 2023, also starting from 
the fact that it is now the European institu­
tions themselves that recognize services are 
paid for with personal data. In addition, con­
tinuing debate on artificial intelligence and 
the transparency of algorithms, I believe 2023 
will be the year Italy will decide what kind of 
data economy it would like to see realized.
  Japan
Hiroyuki Tanaka
On April 1, 2022, nearly all the Act on 
Protection of Personal Information amend­
ments took effect, save for amendments 
regarding local governments and local incor­
porated administrative agencies, which enter 
into effect April 1 of this year.
The amended Telecommunications Business 
Act enacted in June 2022 that includes new 
cookie regulations will take effect no later 
than June 16 this year. This will introduce 
new obligations on telecommunication service 
providers that have non-trivial impacts on 
users’ interests. When a TSP communicates 
a command for the external transmission of 
information (including cookies) from users to 
third parties, a TSP is required to either (a) 
notify certain information to users or make 
such information easily available to users, 
(ii) obtain opt-in consent or (iii) provide an 
opt-out mechanism. According to the latest

--- Página 17 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
17
draft of the TBA Ordinance, a TSP will be 
an entity that provides (a) a service of inter­
mediating telecommunication of others, (b) 
social media services, bulletin board systems, 
movie-sharing services, online shopping 
malls, etc., (c) online search engines or (d) 
various information, such as news, weather, 
movies and maps to unspecified people. So 
in practice, if your business is categorized as 
a TSP, then preparing cookie policy or the 
like will be required at a minimum, although 
offering opt-in consent or an opt-out mecha­
nism is optional.
  Kenya 
Elias Okwara, CIPP/E, CIPP/US
2022 was a very active year for Kenya’s 
DPA, the Office of the Data Protection 
Commissioner. The ODPC launched 
its Strategic Plan and Data Protection 
Curriculum and published three data pro­
tection regulations. For enforcement, the 
ODPC initiated an audit of 40 digital lenders 
and undertook enforcement action against a 
health care provider. 
The ODPC also beefed up its manpower by 
hiring dozens of new staff and conducting 
training for senior staff. The commissioner 
and other officials also went to Europe, 
met with EU Justice Commissioner Didier 
Reynders and discussed collaboration between 
the EU and Kenya on data protection matters. 
Kenya was also accredited to join the Global 
Privacy Assembly during the assembly’s 44th 
session held in Istanbul, Turkey. 
2023 is set to become even more active and 
interesting for Kenya.
We should expect the ODPC to continue 
on the path of enforcement and potentially 
target “big fish” in the event of complaints or 
the ODPC’s own investigations. It will be inter­
esting to see which multinationals may be in 
the crosshairs given the existing imbalance 
in the provision of rights to data subjects in 
Africa. At the same time, Kenya has a culture 
of publishing highly personal information, 
particularly by public entities during human 
resource recruitment. We should look forward 
to guidance by the ODPC to public entities 
on such matters. Furthermore, Kenya was the 
only African country included on the U.K.’s 
list of priority destinations for adequacy, so 
we should expect movement toward making 
this a reality. At the same time, the commis­
sioner indicated her support for harmonized 
approaches to data privacy, and therefore 
activity around the Network of African Data 
Protection Authorities is expected.
  Latvia
Anna Vladimirova-Kryukova, CIPP/E
In 2022, Latvia’s DPA, the Data State 
Inspectorate, focused on several aspects: 
cookies and related tracking technologies, 
anti-money laundering within data protection 
contexts, and the role of a DPO. For instance, 
it performed several preventive audits in 
the private and public sector regarding 
cookies and DPOs respectively. In addition, 
it elaborated data processing guidelines for 
anti-money laundering purposes. Then, it was 
entrusted in supervising know-your-customer 
service providers.
Thus, it is expected that one of the main new 
activities of the DVI will be related to moni­
toring whether KYC tools are compliant with 
the applicable requirements. 
Also, taking into consideration the results of 
the preventive cookie audits, it is expected 
that cookies and other e-commerce and 
marketing-related data processing activities 
will be subject to further attention from 
different sides.

--- Página 18 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
18
The DVI also imposed its highest penalty 
for GDPR violations: 1.2 million euros, which 
is now being examined by the local courts. 
The litigation should be followed by privacy 
professionals as it will help understand more 
about the procedural part of dealing with 
data protection violations.
  Lithuania
Natalija Bitiukova, CIPP/E, CIPM, FIP
In 2022, in its long-awaited judgment, the 
Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania 
found that a regional news portal did not vio­
late the GDPR when processing the personal 
data of a local businessman in a publication 
alleging corrupt public procurement practices. 
Although the judgment clarified some aspects 
of the application of a legitimate interests 
assessment to media publications, likely, the 
national debate on the values attributed to 
data protection and transparency will con­
tinue into 2023.
The latter is particularly true since, in late 
2022, the CJEU issued a landmark judgment 
in the case of OT v Vyriausioji tarnybines 
etikos komisija, where it found a requirement 
under the Lithuanian law to publish online 
detailed private interest declarations of public 
officials incompatible with data minimization, 
necessity and proportionality principles. The 
authorities will need to look for new ways of 
reconciling the important legitimate interest 
in combatting corruption with the data 
protection law guarantees. 
This year, Parliament is likely to vote on the 
liberalization of data protection rules related 
to the background checks of prospective 
employees, as proposed by the Ministry 
of Justice late last year. Other important 
tasks on the legislature’s to-do list are likely 
to include the deliberation of proposals to 
harmonize the national legal framework with 
the recently adopted EU’s Digital Agenda 
rules, including the Digital Services Act and 
the Digital Markets Act. 
From the enforcement perspective, during the 
first half of 2022, the State Data Protection 
Inspectorate recorded 137 personal data 
breaches affecting over 400,000 individuals. 
In this regard, the regulator launched a 
number of significant investigations, includ­
ing against an online marketplace, the 
Lithuanian Innovation Agency and a financial 
services company. It is expected that these 
investigations will conclude in 2023, poten­
tially providing data controllers with new 
insights and lessons learned regarding the 
prevention and management of data breaches.
  Luxembourg
Vincent Wellens
Yoann E. A. Le Bihan, CIPP/E
With the clear intention of becoming a pio­
neer in the field of certification under GDPR 
Article 42, Luxembourg’s DPA, the National 
Commission for Data Protection, adopted the 
first certification mechanism under the GDPR 
and officially accredited the first certification 
body. Quite naturally, we expect some signifi­
cant news this year regarding certification in 
Luxembourg, where some big players already 
expressed an interest in the new scheme or 
schemes from other DPAs.
For a second year in a row, the annual report 
of the CNPD mentions that some data con­
trollers in the fields of banking and insurance 
are underrepresented in data breach notifi­
cations. Even though the global pandemic 
may have shifted the priorities of the DPA for 
some time, we believe the current return to 
normal might be the occasion for the CNPD 
to investigate those statistical anomalies, 
leading to further enforcement. This is on 
top of remodeling and strengthening existing 
industry-specific compliance frameworks 
(such as Circular CSSF 22/806, DORA and the

--- Página 19 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
19
NIS 2 Directive) and could lead to a very busy 
2023 for bankers and insurers.
Despite the publication of its guidelines on 
cookies and trackers in 2021, the CNPD has 
not published any decisions resulting from 
audits of online tracking practices by data 
controllers. At a time when many other 
DPAs are publishing decisions regarding 
Google Analytics not in compliance with 
the GDPR, the CNPD might choose to focus 
more on cookies and trackers. Furthermore, 
it is actively investigating the compliance 
with GDPR transparency (and information) 
requirements in the e-commerce sector. The 
findings of these investigations may lead to 
the need for many actors in the e-commerce 
sector and beyond to rethink their data 
protection notices.
Last but not least, with the deadline for 
implementation of the new standard con­
tractual clauses Dec. 27, 2022, we would not 
be surprised to see old standard contractual 
clauses mentioned as an additional finding 
in audit reports in 2023. Of course, 2023 
will be a decisive year to see whether the 
Biden administration’s executive order will 
be sufficient as a basis for the European 
Commission’s next adequacy decision that 
would replace the EU-US Privacy Shield.
  Mexico
Gabriela Espinosa Cantu, CIPP/US, CIPM
While several countries around the world 
continue passing privacy laws that mirror the 
EU GDPR, there is still not such a clear effort 
to do the same in Mexico. Several initiatives 
were presented to Congress in 2022 to amend 
the Mexican Federal Data Protection Law 
Held by Private Parties, targeting particular 
requirements, but no comprehensive bill has 
been discussed nor drafted to enhance pri­
vacy and data protection standards. 
Current drafts address — separately — 
privacy-by-design and by-default require­
ments, the relevance to include biometric 
information within the sensitive data defini­
tion, or the possibility for affected individuals 
to receive monetary compensation by the 
infringing controller that failed to grant their 
data protection. None of these initiatives has 
had any significant movement. 
Congress and public authorities have shown 
more interest in regulating cybersecurity 
after a significant hacking of Mexican 
Defense Ministry information that released 
millions of documents last September. The 
bill — which at the time of the writing of this 
article has not been passed yet — includes 
the creation of a cybersecurity authority, the 
definition of cybercrimes and fundamentals 
for defining authorities’ jurisdiction, and 
enforcement actions. Both chambers in 
Congress are aligned in urgency to specifically 
regulate cybersecurity where they want to 
protect digital activity and information held 
by public authorities for national security, as 
well as prevent security breaches of confiden­
tial information.
Even though the Mexican data protection 
laws and regulations are based on several fair 
information privacy practices or principles, 
they are waiting a long-overdue update to 
catch up with the digital age. The Senate 
is still pending to define two missing com­
missioners from the national DPA. Current 
spotlight and interest on the cybersecurity 
law could be just the push both pending 
activities need.
  New Zealand
Daimhin Warner
2022 was an exciting year of complementary 
developments, helping New Zealand regain 
its position at the forefront of future-proofed

--- Página 20 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
20
privacy regulation. Several developments were 
commenced but not completed, which means 
that 2023 will continue this theme. 
At the end of 2021, the government signaled 
that a bill implementing a new consumer data 
right would to be introduced to Parliament 
in 2022. This has not yet occurred, likely 
overshadowed by other legislative priorities, 
but could be expected next year. This will be 
New Zealand’s version of the data portability 
right. Readiness work has already begun 
in the banking and financial technology 
sectors in anticipation of the law’s eventual 
implementation. 
A decision on the regulation of facial recogni­
tion and other biometric technologies is likely 
to be high on the agenda of New Zealand’s 
DPA, the Office of the Privacy Commissioner. 
This would come following the August 2022 
release of a consultation paper seeking views 
on what action may be needed to address the 
increasing use of biometric technology in New 
Zealand. Whatever regulatory response is 
favored, the OPC has made clear it will seek to 
preserve the benefits of the technology while 
protecting against privacy risks and ensure 
the compliance burden is proportionate to the 
scale of the risk. 
We should also see action on the Ministry 
of Justice’s proposal to broaden the Privacy 
Act’s notification requirements. Currently, 
there is no requirement for agencies to 
provide privacy notice to individuals when 
collecting personal information about them 
indirectly (that is, from other sources). 
Submissions — such as those made by the 
privacy commissioner — appear to favor an 
amendment to existing information privacy 
principle 3, rather than the insertion of a new 
privacy principle. 
Finally, taking a cue from the commissioner’s 
public comments, we can expect to see a 
continuation of the commissioner’s engage­
ment with the “privacy ecosystem” — includ­
ing policymakers, organizations, nongovern­
mental organizations, industry groups and 
privacy professionals — to deliver privacy 
guidance and resources more efficiently. 
  Nigeria
Oluwagbeminiyi Ojedokun, CIPP/E, CIPM
Ridwan Oloyede, CIPP/E, CIPM, FIP
Dorcas Tsebee
The data protection landscape in Nigeria 
had another remarkable year. After previ­
ous failed attempts, a renewed effort was 
made in 2022 for another data protection 
bill. The Minister of Communication and 
Digital Economy announced in February that 
the president approved the establishment 
of the Nigeria Data Protection Bureau to 
replace the National Information Technology 
Development Agency. 
In 2022, the government introduced a new 
data protection bill. We expect this bill to 
pass early 2023, as the Senate promised to do 
so within 30 days of its introduction. The bill 
is expected to be signed into law in the first 
or second quarter of 2023. The enactment of 
the law will ensure the complete transition 
and formal establishment of the NDPB as the 
country’s DPA because it has been operating 
without an establishing law since February 
2022. At the state level, the Lagos State Data 
Protection Bill is expected to pass and signed 
into law. We also anticipate some progress 
with Ogun State’s own bill.
We anticipate more sector-specific 
guidance and regulations that will either 
directly address or impact data protection 
coming from multiple federal bodies: the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, the 
Nigeria Insurance Commission, the Federal 
Competition and Consumer Protection 
Commission, and the Central Bank of Nigeria.

--- Página 21 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
21
The Nigeria Communication Commission 
is also expected to release an amendment 
to the Registration of Telecommunications 
Subscribers Regulation, which opened for 
public comment in 2022. We anticipate 
significant progress on some pending 
legislative proposals, such as the Electronic 
Transactions Bill and the National Electronic 
Health Record Bill. Finally, we anticipate that 
the proposed amendment to the Cybercrimes 
Act will be presented before the end of the 
current legislative cycle.
  Norway
Martha Ingves
The Norwegian Intelligence Service Act, 
which would allow the intelligence service 
to access any information that has crossed 
the Norwegian border by digital means, 
is expected to be a hot topic in 2023. This 
act, which was adopted in 2020 but since 
then only partially implemented, has raised 
concerns amongst privacy experts and advo­
cates. It is likely to trigger further debate 
and possible legislative proposals from the 
Norwegian government.
In September 2022, the Privacy Commission, 
a consultative body appointed by the 
Norwegian government, published their 
report on the state of privacy in Norway. The 
report, which is intended to lay the founda­
tion for future legislative and policy initia­
tives, identified several areas that raise pri­
vacy concerns, especially in connection with 
the digitalization in the public sector and 
processing of children’s data. The commission 
suggested, amongst other things, to further 
regulate and supervise the use of digital tools 
in the education sector, as well as focus more 
on the need for better competence in privacy 
within municipalities and schools. 
The commission also highlighted that further 
regulation on online tracking is necessary and 
found cookie banners to be an insufficient 
tool to protect users’ privacy online. However, 
there was disagreement within the commis­
sion regarding online behavioral advertising, 
with some members suggesting that the 
government should consider introducing a 
general ban on such practice, whereas others 
called for a more nuanced approach. 
While action from the Norwegian government 
following the commission’s report will likely 
span over several years, the first follow-up 
initiatives are likely to take place in 2023. 
Finally, the sandbox for responsible AI that 
Norway’s DPA, Datatilsynet, started as a trial 
project in 2020 has been granted a perma­
nent budget by the Norwegian government. 
Therefore, the sandbox will soon be trans­
formed into a more structured program. This 
is a clear sign that AI and digitalization as 
well as data privacy are high priorities at a 
governmental level in Norway.
  Paraguay
Cecilia Abente
2023 will likely be an interesting year for 
data protection in Paraguay. Legislative 
discussions are expected to occur on the 
comprehensive data protection bill submitted 
to Congress May 2021. 
The bill’s content mainly follows the provi­
sions of the EU GDPR and the Ibero-American 
Data Protection Standards. It creates a com­
plete data protection framework including 
principles, data subjects’ rights, controllers 
and processors’ obligations, international 
transfers, supervisory authority roles and 
other issues related to data processing. 
The bill is still being discussed in its cham­
ber of origin, the Deputy Chambers, and is 
expected to have amendments proposed by 
the Constitutional Affairs Commission, which

--- Página 22 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
22
is one of the seven commissions assigned to 
study the content of the proposed law.
One of the most controversial points of the 
bill could be the creation of a new and inde­
pendent authority as it was proposed in the 
original bill. It is very likely that the functions 
of the authority in charge would be allocated 
to an existing public entity. 
In late 2020, the Credit Data Protection Law 
entered into effect, and it is currently the only 
data protection law in force in the country. 
Its reglementary decree should be issued 
sometime this year. Nevertheless, this will not 
replace a comprehensive law. 
Additionally, it is possible that specific legis­
lation involving personal data such as elec­
tronic health records and mandatory storage 
of traffic data to combat child pornography 
and related punishable acts may be in put on 
to the parliamentary agenda.
  Peru
Catherine Escobedo Paredes
The most important lesson 2022 left for Peru 
in terms of personal data protection is that 
it urgently needs to update its legislation and 
policies, particularly regarding cybersecurity. 
Following multiple cybersecurity incidents 
in 2022, it is imperative Peru approves its 
National Cybersecurity Policy as a priority 
for 2023 and allocates enough budget for 
its implementation and dissemination. 
The Secretariat of Government and Digital 
Transformation announced it is working on 
this, so we may expect a first draft soon.
Other pending laws and regulations that will 
ensure better handling of the personal infor­
mation kept by the government include the 
long-awaited approval of the Cybersecurity 
Law, which received some observations from 
the Executive Branch back in 2019 and has 
yet to be revisited by Congress. Also pending 
is the drafting of both the regulations of the 
Cyber Defense law (Law No. 30999) and the 
regulations of the Digital Trust Framework 
(Urgent Decree No. 007-2020) which — among 
other things — will clarify the timeframe and 
procedures for reporting data breaches and 
personal data security incidents.
On the other hand, the legislative agenda 
for 2023 includes two proposals for the 
modification of the Digital Trust Framework 
to strengthen the National Digital Security 
Center and promote the creation of a National 
Cybersecurity Council.
Finally, we should expect either a modifica­
tion to the current Data Protection Law or 
the issuing of special directives on the use 
of cookies (most likely the latter) since the 
only special guidance on the subject currently 
is an advisory opinion that Peru’s DPA, the 
National Authority for the Protection of 
Personal Data, issued early 2022. It has been 
disclosed that the ANPD is supervising the 
use of cookies on different websites and 
imposing fines if they find the websites fail to 
obtain the consent of the data subject for the 
treatment of their personal data when using 
marketing cookies.
  Philippines
Irish Krystle Almeida, CIPM
The Philippines’ DPA, the National Privacy 
Commission, underwent major organiza­
tional changes in the past year, starting with 
the appointment of Deputy Commissioner 
John Naga as the new privacy commis­
sioner. He succeeded Privacy Commissioner 
Raymund Liboro and is joined by newly 
appointed Deputy Commissioner Nerissa 
de Jesus and Deputy Privacy Commissioner 
Leandro Aguirre.

--- Página 23 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
23
The commission is anticipated to focus on 
heightened enforcement of the Philippines’ 
privacy law, the Data Privacy Act. We may 
begin to see administrative fines in line with 
NPC Circular No. 2022-01. Under this circular, 
personal information controllers and personal 
information processors may face fines ranging 
from 0.5% to 3% of their annual gross income 
for grave infractions and 0.25% to 2% for 
major infractions. This, on top of criminal 
penalties including imprisonment — already 
provided by the privacy law — is geared 
toward increasing organizational accountabil­
ity and enhancing overall compliance. Privacy 
Commissioner Naga stated: “We hope that 
PICs and PIPs would not view the administra­
tive fines as adversarial, but as a motivation 
to protect and safeguard the personal data 
they collect and process.”
The proliferation of targeted spam and scam 
texts bearing mobile subscribers’ names also 
took center stage in 2022. In response to 
these criminal schemes to defraud Filipinos 
reeling from the effects of the pandemic, 
the commission convened technical working 
group sessions to determine how the govern­
ment and private sector, particularly telecom­
munications companies, can work together to 
better protect the public.
We may see significant improvements in 
this space with the passage of the SIM 
Registration Act. The requirement of 
providing personal details, including a 
government-issued ID, for the purpose of 
identity verification prior to mobile SIM card 
activation may prove to deter fraud actors 
and cybercriminals who could no longer hide 
behind the veil of anonymity.
  Portugal
Joao Lamim, CIPP/E, CIPM
In 2022, Portugal saw a new directive from 
its DPA, the National Data Protection 
Commission, on direct marketing electronic 
communications (Directive 01/2022). In June 
2022, the CNPD ordered telecommunications 
providers to eliminate data retained under 
Law 32/2008 after the Constitutional Court 
issued its ruling 268/2022 April 19, 2022, 
declaring some of its rules unconstitutional 
following the Digital Rights Ireland case.
There are some legislative initiatives in 
Portugal’s Parliament, the Assembly of the 
Republic, that should be on privacy profes­
sionals’ radars.
•	 Bills 70/XV, 79/XV 100/XV, to amend Law 
No. 32/2008 on conserving metadata in 
electronic communications. The CNPD 
warns of the risk of generalized storage 
of personal traffic data — that is, data 
relating to almost the entire population 
— revealing the identities of individuals 
that others communicated with electron­
ically, contrary to Judgment No. 268/2022 
from the Constitutional Court recom­
mending some changes to the project.
•	 Bill 11/XV aims to regulate access to 
metadata relating to electronic com­
munications for criminal investigation, 
with the risk, according to the CNPD, of 
a disproportionate restriction of funda­
mental rights to privacy, informational 
self-determination and freedom of 
personality development.
•	 Regarding Draft Law 19/XV, which 
changes the legal regime for the entry, 
stay, departure and removal of foreign­
ers in the national territory, the CNPD 
considers that some provisions are too 
vague and need clarification, such as 
the processing of biometric data for the 
identification of foreigners.
•	 Bill 347/XV reinforces the protection of 
victims of crimes of nonconsensual dis­
semination of intimate content, amend­
ing the Penal Code and Decree-Law No. 
Internal and Processing of Personal Data.

--- Página 24 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
24
  Romania
Adriana Neagu, CIPP/E, CIPM, FIP
We cannot expect any new data protection 
regulations for 2023. However, there are other 
laws and projects with impact on data protec­
tion such as the whistleblower law, the law on 
cybersecurity and defense, and the govern­
mental cloud. 
As expected, the whistleblower law is meant 
to facilitate reports regarding violations of 
the law within private entities, public author­
ities, institutions or other legal entities under 
public law. It transposes the EU Whistleblower 
Directive adopted in 2019 after Romania 
failed to meet the directive implementation 
deadline in 2021. The initial draft law approved 
by Parliament was sent back by the president 
for new discussion as certain elements raised 
public discord, such as requiring anonymous 
whistleblowers to provide their data. Likewise, 
concerns were also raised over the Recovery 
and Resilience Plan. Private companies with 
more than 50 employees must have set up an 
internal communication channel and placed 
proper procedures by Jan. 1 of this year.
The draft law on cybersecurity and cyber 
defense of Romania was made public. The 
draft mandates legal entities responsible 
for networks or systems owned by public 
or private entities and used by authorities 
or institutions to notify any cybersecurity 
incident within 24 hours of becoming aware 
of it. As these legal entities are also subject to 
the GDPR and most of these incidents affect 
personal data, the deadline for reporting cyber 
incidents might indirectly apply to reporting 
data breaches as it becomes clear that they 
will be aware of the incident once reported 
under this draft law.
Another project raising public debate is the 
governmental cloud. This project will take 
some years to be implemented, though the 
main decisions have passed. The authorities 
promise the platform will allow citizens to 
access their own data. This will be a big step 
for Romania and for the digital transforma­
tion, though how this will be implemented 
remains to be seen.
  Saudi Arabia
Ben Crew, CIPP/E
In Saudi Arabia, the latest draft of the 
Personal Data Protection Law includes sig­
nificant changes that have been set forward 
by the Saudi Data and Artificial Intelligence 
Authority for consultation. These changes 
include the addition of data portability into 
the data subject access rights, relaxation of 
data transfer restrictions, clarifications of 
rules for certain types of data such as health 
data and the removal of certain criminal 
offences. Additionally, it now includes a 
legitimate business interest basis for legal 
processing, which is a fundamental change. 
The changes also introduce a requirement 
for organizations to provide an opt-out 
from the use of personal data for marketing 
and prohibit the use of sensitive data for 
marketing purposes. 
Comments were open through Dec. 20, 2022. 
Similar to the United Arab Emirates, execu­
tive regulations are likely to come forward 
in the first several months of 2023, with the 
enforcement date beginning 12 months after. 
Overall, this is a positive move by the author­
ities to engage in wider discussion about data 
protection requirements and ensure the final 
legislation strikes a fair balance between 
protecting sensitive information without 
hindering business progress.
  Serbia
Petar Mijatovic
In March 2022, Serbia’s DPA, the 
Commissioner for Information of Public

--- Página 25 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
25
Importance and Personal Data Protection, 
adopted its official yearly report. The report 
reaffirmed the commissioner’s view that main 
impediments in exercising data subject rights 
under the Law on Personal Data Protection, 
are the normative flaws of the LPDP. Among 
other things, the LPDP lacks recitals that 
would establish main criteria for further 
interpretation of the law. Additionally, pro­
visions that echo the EU’s Law Enforcement 
Directive are scattered throughout the LPDP. 
The noncompliance of other laws with LPDP 
are also an impediment.
During 2022, the Working Group of the 
Government of the Republic of Serbia worked 
on the preparation of the new Data Protection 
Strategy with an Action Plan.
It is expected that the most important priority 
of the new Data Protection Strategy in 2023 
will be adoption — or at least initiation of 
procedures for adoption — of the amendments 
and supplements of the LDPD. These will mit­
igate the normative flaws concerning the pro­
visions that echo the EU’s Law Enforcement 
Directive by putting these provisions in a 
separate law or section of the LPDP and also 
introduce the provisions on processing per­
sonal data through video surveillance.
  Singapore
Pranav Rai
Over the past few years, Singapore has made 
significant changes to its Personal Data 
Protection Law to better protect consumers 
and keep pace with technological and busi­
ness developments.
Following the first comprehensive review 
of the PDPA, Singapore introduced these 
changes by a PDPA amendment in 2020 and 
is implementing them in batches. The first 
(2021) batch of amendments expanded the 
scope of the PDPA to include personal data 
processors on behalf of public agencies, gave 
the DPA more authority, strengthened con­
trols on spam, introduced a mandatory breach 
notification system, and allowed certain 
organizations to use personal data without 
consent for purposes such as understanding 
customer behavior, subject to certain con­
ditions. The second (2022) batch increased 
the penalties for violating the PDPA and 
imposed penalties on certain new classes of 
organizations. Maximum penalties — which 
were SGD 1 million earlier — can be up to 10% 
or 5% of the breaching organization’s annual 
turnover in Singapore if the annual turnover 
exceeds SGD 10 million or SGD 20 million, 
respectively. 
In 2023 we can expect the commencement 
of the third (and final) batch of changes: data 
portability provisions. While already one of 
the fundamental data subject rights in the 
GDPR, the data portability provisions will be 
new to the PDPA. Singapore’s rationale for 
their incorporation is to provide individuals 
with greater autonomy over their personal 
data as well as help the innovative and more 
intensive use of applicable data in the posses­
sion or control of organizations — for exam­
ple, to support the development of services 
provided by them. More in tune with the 
latter rationale and expectedly wider than in 
the GDPR, the data portability right will also 
have a list of exceptions and restrictions, such 
as situations where transmission is contrary 
to national interest.
  South Africa
Nerushka Bowan, CIPP/E
Gilad Katzav
The end of 2022 marks approximately a year 
and a half since the Protection of Personal 
Information Act came into effect in South 
Africa. The POPIA’s implementation has 
been slow, staggered and — encouragingly — 
steadfast.

--- Página 26 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
26
As anticipated, the Information Regulator has 
spent most of 2022 gradually operationaliz­
ing the POPIA’s legislative framework. This 
includes approving banking and credit report­
ing Code of Conducts, publishing several guid­
ance notes and prescribed forms, implement­
ing an online registration platform for DPOs 
and establishing the Enforcement Committee. 
The IR also issued media statements relating 
to processing activities of public bodies, 
investigated various reported data breaches, 
and hosted and spoke at a number of public 
events and engagement forums.
In 2023, we expect the IR to continue to play 
an active role and further operationalize. 
We anticipate that the IR will initiate inves­
tigations into allegations or complaints of 
unlawful data processing as well as referring 
such matters to the Enforcement Committee 
for further consideration. It is feasible that 
we may see the first fine or penalty imposed 
under the POPIA for unlawful data processing 
practices in 2023.
Whilst we have seen a handful of 
POPIA-related cases come through the courts, 
there are still many aspects of the POPIA that 
are yet to be authoritatively interpreted. It 
remains a concern that the EU Commission 
has not determined whether South Africa 
provides an adequate level of protection 
relative to the GDPR. Similarly, the IR has 
also not made any determinations regarding 
the GDPR’s adequacy status in comparison to 
the POPIA. Given that juristic persons may 
be considered data subjects under the POPIA, 
further guidance for cross-border data trans­
fers would be welcome. We are hopeful that 
this issue will be dealt with this year as such 
recognition or guidance is necessary for the 
free flow of information between South Africa, 
the EU and the GDPR-approved nations.
  Spain
Joanna Rozanska, CIPP/E, CIPP/US
This year we can expect to see the intro­
duction of the (overdue) Spanish law imple­
menting the EU Whistleblower Directive. The 
current draft of the referred law states that 
any and all entities obliged to implement a 
whistleblowing scheme by having at least 50 
employees shall appoint a DPO, which will 
considerably broaden the scope of such an 
obligation in Spain.
Let´s also bet on the upcoming appointment 
of the new director of Spain’s DPA, the 
Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos. 
This is expected within the coming months, 
which may bring new developments in the 
institution’s strategy.
In addition, the AEPD is negotiating a 
code of conduct with the financial and 
telecommunications industries, which will 
serve to promote, enhance and reinforce 
mediation to resolve complaints. In general 
terms, the idea is that, when a complaint 
arrives, it will be referred to the supervisory 
body of this code of conduct, which will 
coordinate with the financial or the telecom­
munication entity concerned, which, in turn, 
will refer it to the DPO.
The focus on disruptive technologies is 
steadily increasing in Spain and will likely 
continue in 2023. Following this tendency, the 
AEPD is likely to publish some new guidelines 
on the interplay between data protection and 
such technologies, with a special focus on 
artificial intelligence and the use of biometric 
technologies.
Finally, the AEPD may comment on some new 
European regulations that entered into force 
recently or will do so throughout the 2023 
with an impact on data protection, such as 
the Digital Services Act, Digital Markets Act 
or Data Governance Act.

--- Página 27 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
27
  Sweden
Sofia Edvardsen, CIPP/E
At the Swedish Parliament’s opening in 
October, a new liberal-conservative gov­
ernment took office. The new government 
renewed focus on communications and 
security. For the first time, the government 
appointed a national security advisor. Sweden 
is continuing its application process to 
become a NATO member, with possible final 
acceptance during 2023.
Also notable is that Sweden has the EU presi­
dency from Jan. 1 to June 30. The finalization 
of the ePrivacy Regulation is expected to be 
on the agenda.
Upcoming legislation for next year includes 
extended possibilities for data surveillance 
to prevent crimes. Additionally, Swedish 
platform operators must provide information 
to tax authorities about the income of the 
platform users when selling goods or services. 
The existing legislation on data protection was 
found sufficient and did not need any changes.
In April 2022, the EU Commission criticized 
Sweden, saying it failed to fulfil its “obliga­
tions as regards the right to effective judicial 
remedy for data subjects in certain cases” and 
failed to “transpose and communicate to the 
Commission how national measures transpose 
the EU Electronic Communications Code.” 
Sweden’s DPA, Integritetsskyddsmyndigheten, 
has been quite busy the past year with initiat­
ing enforcement actions and guidance.
At the beginning of November 2022, IMY had 
143 ongoing investigations — a slight decrease 
compared to 2021. The oldest ongoing inves­
tigation is from June 2019. Hopefully, an 
increased budget will improve the statistics 
and lead to more decisions.
IMY initiated the supervision of several 
internet-based pharmacy companies and their 
use of the Facebook pixel and ancillary ser­
vices from Meta. Since it potentially concerns 
the sharing of sensitive personal data (health 
information), future supervision decisions 
are crucial in using the Facebook pixel and 
processing sensitive personal data.
  Switzerland
Stephane Droxler, CIPP/E, CIPM
The new Federal Data Protection Act will 
finally come into force Sept. 1. Formally 
approved in September 2020, it will have 
taken three years to deliver its implementing 
ordinance. It should be noted, however, that 
this new law will be immediately and fully 
applicable, such that there will be no delay 
for data controllers and their processors to 
adapt. On the other hand, it will not have 
a retroactive effect either, which means 
that the application of certain clauses (for 
example, the obligation to carry out data 
privacy impact assessments or to implement 
privacy-by-design measures) will not concern 
processing initiated under the current law. 
The question of the renewal of the adequacy 
status by the EU currently remains open. If 
the main lines of this new FDPA undoubt­
edly tend toward a rapprochement with 
the requirements of the GDPR, its lack of 
ambition is regrettable. This is particularly 
true regarding the weak reinforcement of the 
powers of the supervisory authority as well 
as the absence of administrative sanctions, 
which would certainly have been more dis­
suasive than hypothetical criminal measures 
against individuals who will be difficult to 
track down in practice.
It will therefore be interesting to see what 
extent organizations that would not already

--- Página 28 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
28
comply with GDPR requirements for com­
mercial or extraterritoriality reasons will 
mobilize to adapt their security and compli­
ance measures.
  Thailand
Rubkwan Choldumrongkul
Yulia Askhadulina, CIPP/E
On Jan. 18, 2022, Thailand’s DPA, the Personal 
Data Protection Committee, consisting of the 
chairperson and the nine honorary commis­
sioners, was formed and as of June 1, 2022, 
Thailand’s first comprehensive Personal Data 
Protection Act fully went into effect. 
In 2022, the PDPC issued eight subordinated 
regulations clarifying the requirements set 
under the PDPA. Among them are regulations 
addressing the administration of the new 
law by the PDPC, the appointment of the 
Expert Committee, and framework for the 
determination and enforcement of the admin­
istrative sanction by the Expert Committee. 
Notifications on security measures for the 
data controllers, rules governing records of 
processing activities for the data processor 
and corresponding subject matter expert 
exemptions were published. 
In 2023, we expect the PDPC to finalize 
the public consultation process that began 
in 2021 and issue group one subordinated 
regulations addressing some of the pressing 
practical issues. The PDPC has already pub­
lished the guidelines for obtaining consent 
and notifying purposes for personal data 
collection. In the pipeline are the regulations 
addressing the role and qualifications of 
DPOs, cross-border data transfers and binding 
corporate rules.
Before the adoption of the comprehensive 
data protection law, the sectorial approach 
in addressing privacy issues proved to be 
effective in Thailand. The Thai Bankers’ 
Association set forth procedures and stan­
dards pertaining to data protection and 
privacy for the banking and financial sectors. 
We expect other data-heavy industries will 
follow suit, and there will be more sectoral 
guidelines and regulations designed in 
consultation with the private sector in the 
upcoming year. 
To date, it appears there were no fines issued 
or formal cases filed. However, throughout 
2022, the PDPC conducted activities to raise 
awareness, enhance knowledge and address 
common misconceptions to ease the fear 
of the new data protection framework. As 
a result of these campaigns, we anticipate 
that the general public and private sectors 
will become more informed of their rights 
and corresponding obligations and cases will 
be brought to the attention of the recently 
established Expert Committee and precedents 
will then be established.
  Turkey
Furkan Guven Tastan
2022 witnessed quite interesting develop­
ments through the legislator on information 
technology-related issues. Various regulations 
on digital services, disinformation and social 
media platforms were enacted this year thanks 
to the determination of the Turkish legislator 
throwing their hats into the ring for IT law 
issues. Unfortunately for data protection 
issues, the prospective reform agenda stipu­
lated by the presidency’s policy documents has 
yet to be achieved. Thus, the goals set by these 
documents are still on the table for 2023. 
The reform agenda consists of two legisla­
tion packages regarding the Turkish Data 
Protection Act. The first and prioritized 
package deals with the means for transfers of 
personal data abroad and conditions for the 
processing of special categories of personal 
data. Provided means for the transfers in

--- Página 29 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
29
the act in force will possibly be extended 
with novel appropriate safeguards such as 
binding corporate rules, codes of conduct 
and approved certifications. Moreover, this 
package also includes the readjusting of 
the conditions for the processing of special 
categories of personal data that are currently 
proving a challenge for the business world in 
Turkey. This part of the package especially 
is prioritized by the Turkish government and 
will most likely be enacted in the first quarter 
of this year. 
As for the remaining part of the reform 
agenda, Turkey plans to change the whole 
act in harmony with the GDPR. The core of 
these changes will likely include a risk-based 
approach and the accountability principle. 
The scientific committee formed by the 
Ministry of Justice has prepared the first 
draft of the package. However, general elec­
tions for Parliament and the presidency in 
2023 might upstage data protection policy 
improvement efforts. So, it will be enthusing 
to monitor whether the whole reform package 
will be prioritized after the general election.
  Ukraine
Dmytro Korshynskyi, CIPP/E, CIPM, FIP
With its official recognition as a European 
Union Candidate, Ukraine will further 
implement changes into the legislation. 
However, Ukraine is still repelling the Russian 
Federation’s full-fledged invasion, so a law 
on personal data protection unfortunately 
may not be the top priority for lawmakers. 
Ukrainian Parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, 
has failed to enact the law already twice this 
year due to the fact that MPs weren’t able to 
reach enough votes. It is unlikely that such 
a law will be passed before the end of the 
war since complying with it will put a rather 
heavy burden on Ukrainian businesses, which 
are currently facing other difficulties brought 
by the war. 
Moreover, according to the new law, there 
must be a dedicated DPA, the creation of 
which is rather complicated during martial 
law. However, once the war is over Ukraine 
will almost certainly pass a GDPR-like law 
on personal data protection which will 
replace the current law that is like the EU’s 
Data Protection Directive. Since the current 
law is familiar with most data protection 
concepts such as controller and processor, 
principles of data protection, legal basis and 
data subject’s rights, the new law will further 
elaborate on GDPR novelties such as data 
protection-by-design and by-default, the 
need to conduct DPIAs, expand data subject’s 
rights and more. As mentioned above it will 
also introduce a dedicated DPA and increase 
the responsibility of the data controllers.
  United Arab Emirates
Benjamin Crew, CIPP/E
In 2021, the United Arab Emirates published 
the Personal Data Protection Law, which was 
scheduled to become applicable in 2022. That 
has now been delayed, however. We believe 
that the executive regulations required to 
support the implementation of the PDPL will 
happen in early 2023, with an enforcement 
date likely to be towards the end of 2023 or 
early 2024. In addition to the PDPL, there are 
a plethora of other laws pending enforcement 
dates at both a federal and freezone level 
covering artificial intelligence, cryptocurrency 
and adtech that are likely to come into force 
in 2023. 
In addition to the new laws, the existing Abu 
Dhabi Global Market and Dubai International 
Financial Centre data protection laws are 
consistently being updated and improved.

--- Página 30 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
30
In the case of the DIFC, a possible adequacy 
decision with the U.K. is on the near horizon. 
The ADGM is also seeking to attain an ade­
quacy decision with the U.K.; however, this 
is more likely to come to fruition in 2024 or 
2025, not 2023. 
Aside from the new and changed laws, there 
are a number of external factors impacting 
all companies in the region. In 2022, there 
was a significant rise in data breaches among 
companies in the UAE, and that trend is not 
expected to diminish in the coming year. If 
anything, companies in the UAE are likely to 
struggle more with data protection and data 
privacy compliance in 2023. 
The Financial Action Task Force listing 
the UAE as a “Jurisdiction under Increased 
Monitoring” has increased external focus on 
companies operating in the region as well 
as the scrutiny of the regulatory regimes in 
the UAE. This includes ensuring how compa­
nies actually handle their data and manage 
know-your-customer requirements. It’s 
important to note that the increased focus on 
compliance by global regulatory authorities is 
not just limited to KYC and anti-money laun­
dering activities. Organizations must expect 
and prepare for more in-depth, substantive 
investigations and fines for noncompliance 
with local, federal and sectoral laws, espe­
cially those that govern data privacy.
  United Kingdom
John Bowman, CIPP/E, CIPM, FIP
Since the United Kingdom left the European 
Union in January 2020, a stream of initiatives 
has emerged from the U.K. government as it 
steers a distinctive course in data protection 
in the post-Brexit era. Following a public con­
sultation on the U.K.’s data protection regime, 
in July 2022 the government introduced to 
the House of Commons the Data Protection 
and Digital Information Bill, which included 
reforms to the U.K. General Data Protection 
Regulation and Data Protection Act 2018. 
These reforms include transferring the role 
of the information commissioner to a new 
information commission with an obligation 
to take into account economic growth and 
deregulation issues in carrying out its role. 
The reforms would also enable the U.K. 
government to make its own adequacy deter­
minations, introduce standard data protection 
clauses and determine derogations where they 
support the public interest. 
With regards to data exporters making their 
own assessments of third countries, the pro­
posed test is whether the standard of data pro­
tection in the recipient country would not be 
materially lower than that in the U.K. For data 
controllers, some changes to the accountability 
regime were proposed, including the easing 
of specific obligations to compile a record of 
processing activities, conduct data protection 
impact assessments and appoint DPOs. 
The most recent statement from the gov­
ernment on the state of play of the bill was 
issued in September. This confirmed that the 
second reading of the bill in Parliament would 
not take place to allow ministers to consider 
the bill further. Therefore, now in 2023, 
privacy professionals will want to maintain 
a watching brief on the passage of the bill 
and in particular if — and in what form — it 
returns for a second reading in Parliament. 
Another development to follow this year is a 
planned government white paper and public 
consultation on the U.K. National AI Strategy. 
Questions under consideration may include 
whether the proposed framework adequately 
addresses prioritized AI-specific risks; the 
roles, powers, remits and capabilities of regu­
lators for AI; and how this should be delivered 
across the range of regulators (statutory and 
non-statutory).

--- Página 31 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
31
  United States 
federal law
Joe Duball
Action toward U.S. privacy can be viewed 
in two ways entering 2023. The optimistic 
outlook is that the work on the proposed 
American Data Privacy and Protection Act 
will ultimately carry over to 2023. On the 
opposite end, watching Congress rehash the 
same old issues — private right of action, pre­
emption, etc. — without arriving at a solution 
could mean we’re further away from passing 
legislation than the strides made in ADPPA 
negotiations indicate.
The new year brings a new structure to 
Congress, where Republicans flipped the 
House and Democrats retained the Senate. 
The differences between chambers will ulti­
mately be what decides the fate of federal 
privacy this year.
House Republicans said Big Tech regulation, 
including privacy, will be a priority they’ll 
focus on with the majority. It wouldn’t be 
surprising to see the ADPPA or a similar 
bill finally be brought to a floor vote by 
Republicans and passed out of the House 
with bipartisan support. But then there’s the 
Senate, where Democrats remain focused on 
getting a complete bill — stronger consumer 
redress, protections for women’s reproductive 
health as some of the specific asks — while 
showing little willingness to compromise. 
On the state front, comprehensive laws in 
California, Colorado, Utah and Virginia are 
online or will come online at different points 
in 2023. Compliance with those laws will be 
the focus, but it’s easy to overlook the states 
that may have appetite to pass laws of their 
own. Massachusetts, Michigan and Minnesota 
are states with prior Democrat-backed privacy 
bills and have Democratic control of the leg­
islative chambers, governorship and attorney 
general’s office in the upcoming year. 
We’re likely to see less than a handful of 
states pass comprehensive privacy legislation, 
following the trend we’ve seen in recent 
years. Depending on the substance of those 
potential bills, U.S. Congress may be com­
pelled to put aside its differences and reach 
long-awaited federal legislation.
  United States Federal 
Trade Commission
Cobun Zweifel-Keegan, CIPP/US, CIPM
Under the leadership of Chair Lina Khan, 
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission continues 
its role as an active enforcer of privacy and 
data security standards while also laying the 
foundation for future rulemaking activities. 
Currently down one of five commissioners, 
the FTC should soon see a Republican 
nominee to return to full strength. With 
or without this voice, the agency will con­
tinue advancing matters in the consumer 
protection sphere. 
Expect to see a quickening pace of one-off 
privacy enforcement actions now that this 
FTC has hit its stride. New cases are likely to 
highlight issues in vogue among U.S. privacy 
wonks, including data minimization and the 
protection of sensitive data such as health, 
location and children’s data.
On the rulemaking front, the FTC will finish 
the work of reviewing and analyzing the 
thousands of public comments it received in 
response to its Advance Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking on Commercial Surveillance and 
Data Security. If the agency determines that 
the record supports the creation of a new 
trade regulation rule, it will take the next step 
in this lengthy administrative process. The 
next iteration, a formal Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking, will be significantly narrower 
and more targeted than the ANPR. Based on 
the record of public comments and its own

--- Página 32 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
32
evidence, the agency will propose a rule to 
address privacy practices that are widespread 
in the industry but harmful and unavoidable 
for reasonable consumers. Such a proposed 
rule could address issues like reasonable data 
security, data subject access rights or unex­
pected secondary uses of personal data.
  United States 
health care
Kirk Nahra, CIPP/US
Health care privacy has become a hot topic 
once again — and we expect meaningful 
developments in the legislative, regulatory 
and enforcement areas in 2023. 
There are two main regulatory issues to 
focus on. First, the Biden administration is 
in the middle of a rulemaking process — 
initiated by the last administration in its 
last days — focusing on the potential for 
expanded information-sharing in connection 
with both social determinants of health and 
opioid-related situations. These issues are 
complicated, with certain heath care goals 
conflicting with privacy interests. Second, as 
a result of the Dobbs decision, the adminis­
tration is also looking for ways to enhance 
privacy protections for reproductive rights 
information, including evaluating whether 
there can be changes to the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act privacy 
rule to better protect this information.
The agency tasked with primary responsi­
bility for these issues — the Department of 
Health and Human Services Office for Civil 
Rights — continues to face its own challenges. 
Aggressive enforcement will likely continue 
in relation to HIPAA access cases, with more 
than two dozen cases brought in the past 
few years. At the same time, other enforce­
ment has slowed somewhat, due in part to 
fallout from the controversial M.D. Anderson 
decision in the Fifth Circuit, which imposed 
new restrictions on the OCR’s enforcement 
approach. The OCR also is part of a broader 
effort to review data collection activities on 
health care provider websites — evaluating 
whether use of common web analytics tools 
create privacy concerns.
Beyond HIPAA issues, health care privacy 
increasingly involves laws and regulations 
other than HIPAA. The Dobbs decision has 
placed a renewed emphasis on data collec­
tion activities — even for data that does not 
appear to be “health data” — which will have 
implications and concerns in connection with 
reproductive rights information. The Federal 
Trade Commission — in a wide-reaching new 
complaint — accused data broker Kochava of 
unfair data collection practices in connection 
with location-related data, which can be used 
to track individuals to reproductive rights or 
other health care providers. We are watching 
this case carefully and expect others like it. 
We expect both the FTC and state attorneys 
general to continue to look at collection of 
health data outside of the scope of the HIPAA 
rules — including from a wide range of mobile 
apps. These enforcement agencies are exam­
ining how data is collected, where it is going, 
and what consumers know about these issues 
and their related rights. Companies involved in 
health care mobile apps — broadly defined — 
should be thinking about these issues carefully.
On the legislative front, state privacy laws 
continue (for the most part) to exempt 
HIPAA-covered entities and business 
associates, creating a new framework for 
“non-HIPAA” data driven by these state laws 
(and thereby cementing the confusion about 
different rules). The federal legislative efforts 
may continue this complexity by creating 
different standards for health information 
depending on what the entity is, rather than 
based on the information itself.

--- Página 33 ---
International Association of Privacy Professionals  •  iapp.org	
33
For more privacy-related resources, including legislation trackers, tools, guidance, surveys and 
in-depth reports, check out the IAPP Resource Center.
  Zimbabwe
Kuda Hove
Zimbabwe passed its Cyber and Data 
Protection Act Dec. 3, 2021, and republished 
it March 11, 2022, with a correct title. The 
act is an improvement on the country’s 
previous privacy-focused law, the Access 
to Information and Protection of Privacy 
Act, which was repealed in 2020. This 
meant Zimbabwe had gone for a period of 
close to two years with no comprehensive 
privacy legislation.
The Cyber and Data Protection Act is modeled 
mainly after the EU GDPR. Some of the GDPR 
influences evident in the Zimbabwean law 
include outlining the different data protection 
principles and classifying different types of 
data including sensitive personal information 
and biometric data. The act also refers to the 
automated processing of personal information. 
However, there are some concerns with the 
law that are likely to affect the protection 
of privacy in Zimbabwe. For example, the 
law establishes a DPA, but this function is 
assigned to Zimbabwe’s existing telecommu­
nications regulator. This regulator has in the 
past been accused of lacking independence 
or transparency. There are also fears that the 
regulator does not have the capacity to effec­
tively oversee privacy rights in Zimbabwe.
Furthermore, the law calls for DPO appoint­
ments, but the DPA is yet to publish guide­
lines on the minimum requirements or qual­
ifications for DPOs. This may further delay 
the establishment of data protection policies 
within Zimbabwean organizations. In other 
African countries such as Uganda and Kenya, 
the implementation of their data protection 
laws was crippled by an indefinite delay to 
pass the regulations needed to provide guid­
ance on applying the law.
Finally, Zimbabwe heads to elections this 
year and the new law is likely to be used to 
target individuals who criticize government. 
Since the Cyber and Data Protection Act was 
gazetted, at least three media practitioners 
have been charged with cybercrimes. None 
of those charges have led to any convictions, 
demonstrating the charges are meant to 
harass media practitioners to silence their 
dissenting opinions. It is expected that 
this pattern of harassment through the law 
will increase as the country draws closer to 
national elections.

