=== A CISO Guide Cyber Defence.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
A CISO’s Guide 
to Bolstering 
Cyber Defenses
Sean Atkinson, CISO
Center for Internet Security
www.cisecurity.org

--- Página 2 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
Contents
	
	 Introduction	
1
	
Chapter 1	 Approaches to Cybersecurity	
2
Breaking the Divide Between Governance and Operational Cybersecurity	
2
The Fox and the Hedgehog: Strategic Cybersecurity Response Planning	
3
	
Chapter 2	 Risk	
5
The Risk Conversation	
5
Where Risks Meet Controls	
6
The One Equation You Need to Calculate Risk-Reduction ROI	
7
Fault Trees and Risk Forests	
9
Creating Event Trees to Help Measure Control Effectiveness	
11
	
Chapter 3	 Data Privacy and Protection	
13
GDPR and Data Privacy	
14
Using CIS Control 13 to Create a Data Protection Plan	
16
	
Chapter 4	 Strengthening Cyber Defenses 	
18
How Security Controls Can Help Improve Your Cyber Defenses	
18
Compliance in Multifaceted Environments	
19
Cloud Compliance: How to Stay Secure on an Intangible Infrastructure	
20
Discovering Security Gaps with Vulnerability Management Controls	
22
Implementing Secure Configurations with CIS Build Kits	
24
Tips to Keep Your Employees Interested in Cybersecurity Awareness Training	
25
	
	 Additional Information	
26
Resources	
26
About the Author	
26
About CIS	
27

--- Página 3 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
1
Introduction
Introduction
The CISO blog launched on the CIS website in January 2018. Since then, it has provided 
guidance on a number of cybersecurity topics with a special focus on the importance 
and implementation of the CIS Controls®—a collaboratively developed, prioritized set 
of actions to protect your organization and data from known cyber-attack vectors.
This eBook is a compilation of some of those blog posts in one place for easy reference. 
It begins with an introduction to cybersecurity approaches and then moves into 
identifying and calculating risk. Risk and data protection go hand-in-hand, making 
up the third section of the book. Finally, we conclude with some cybersecurity 
implementation strategies.
The book is organized so that you can easily jump to the section that most interests 
you. Some of the original posts have been edited for content and length. If you find 
this book valuable, you may wish to read the original posts and future CISO blog posts 
at www.cisecurity.org.

--- Página 4 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
2
Chapter 1: Approaches to Cybersecurity
Chapter 1
Approaches to Cybersecurity
Breaking the Divide Between Governance and Operational Cybersecurity
Governance in cybersecurity
Governance describes the policies and processes that determine how organizations 
detect, prevent, and respond to cyber incidents. Many organizations have a division 
between governance and management. Those who work in governance tend to 
emphasize strategic planning, whereas operational management deals with the 
day-to-day operationalized approach to security. Sometimes this results in different 
leadership perspectives.
Making the organizational move from a divided 
hierarchy to one in which strategy informs operation 
(and operation informs strategy) is a difficult challenge. 
Communication is key to effectively managing 
expectations, messaging, and security posture 
throughout the process.
Detect, prioritize, and control
Operational controls—the real-life response to a cybersecurity incident—should be the 
focus of any security program. Managing these controls and reporting to a governance 
structure may not require the knowledge of operationalization.
Instead, it may rely on an agreed-upon level of risk management involving both 
governance and operational leadership.
Operational controls managers should measure their security posture against a 
framework or baseline such as the CIS Controls or NIST Cyber Security Framework. 
Understanding your organization’s compliance levels is key to finding weaknesses 
in the organizational controls, as well as the prioritization of investment for 
strengthening controls.
With clearer reporting and analysis of risk reduction, we can bridge the gap between 
governance and operational security, leading to better strategic decision making and a 
more unified approach to the cyber threat landscape.
Governance
Strategic planning
Operational 
Management
Day-to-day approach

--- Página 5 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
3
Chapter 1: Approaches to Cybersecurity
The Fox and the Hedgehog: Strategic Cybersecurity Response Planning
Risk managers can use security controls to implement processes to limit the 
vulnerabilities, risks, and threats that abound in the physical and cyber space. Let’s 
define the strategic plan of the implementation of such a systematic approach.
The fox and the hedgehog
A singular vision of the end goal must be in place for any plan of action to be effective. 
A plan of control and measurement should define risk mitigation and provide evidence 
that security controls are in place.
In the security world, there are two popular approaches: the fox and the hedgehog. 
Where a “hedgehog” approach tends to take a singular view of security, the “fox” will 
review security situations from multiple perspectives. The strategic planning work of 
Isaiah Berlin, for example, follows the hedgehog style.
In order to develop policy ideas into a singular vision, try implementing a document 
framework. I prefer to utilize a three-tiered framework based on:
•	 Policy
•	 Standard
•	 Procedure
Start with a singular “control” and a single document that details the information 
security policy which defines that security control. Next, document the details of how to 
implement that control. Ensure you consider multiple cybersecurity approaches and 
concepts such as access control and data 
protection for a multi-layered, defense-in-
depth methodology. By taking a single idea 
and approaching it from multiple views, the 
“fox” style comes back into play.
Breaking down the tenets of cybersecurity
Many organizations implement multiple 
security standards and controls. The CIS 
Controls, for example, provide 20 security 
best practices. Each best practice has its own 
connotations for implementing and measuring 
compliance to a specific task.
Implement controls by breaking the standards 
down further into a procedure. In most cases, 
each security procedure you plan should 
have a singular implementation strategy and 
control. Role-based access control (RBAC) is 
one popular and effective way to implement controls, ensuring that only authorized 
individuals can access control systems. RBAC is based on the user’s role within the 
organization to implement specific security controls.

--- Página 6 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
4
Chapter 1: Approaches to Cybersecurity
Hedgehog, fox, or both?
It is interesting to note that one must play both roles—hedgehog and fox—at 
particular points throughout cybersecurity assessments and audits. The hedgehog 
approach comes into play when working with a singular vision and “the one important 
thing” (a particular security control). However, the multitude of ways to implement 
a particular control requires a multi-disciplined fox approach. Put simply, to achieve 
the singular you must know and understand multiple concepts. Both approaches are 
required to build a strong cyber defense.

--- Página 7 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
5
Chapter 2: Risk
Chapter 2
Risk
The Risk Conversation
Our day-to-day business activities often don’t involve a specific focus on information 
security and making good decisions based on risk and controls. The spectrum of risk 
management duties often falls through the hierarchy based on a top-down process. 
As this happens, the roles and responsibilities that make up risk management may 
slip through the cracks. It is here that we must identify the stakeholders of risk 
management. We must also consider those within business processes who can make a 
big difference between a foiled attack and a catastrophic security incident.
Risk and the organizational culture
Risk elicitation (or risk gathering) at only the senior level of an organization is a 
common mistake. A better solution is to implement a collaborative intake process to 
identify risks throughout all levels of the organization. Without this view, it’s likely 
that some risks may not be uncovered until a security assessment or penetration test 
identifies them—or worse, a breach occurs.
Regularly poll internal stakeholders for their opinions about risk or use scenario- 
based discussions to identify risk. The CIS Controls can also be used to discover gaps in 
security that could be articulated as risks. Start a conversation with those responsible to 
implement those controls technically, operationally, and/or physically.
Getting to the scenario response
Intake of risk analysis can take many forms, from simply asking:
•	 How is our network at risk?
•	 What is the biggest risk you see to the network?
•	 How would this particular risk occur?
•	 Can we stop a malware outbreak and what is our response time?
•	 If we were to download a malicious file, what is our mean time to detection, 
response, and eradication?
The aim here is to ask questions that require a scenario response. This leads to a 
deeper dive into an answer rather than just “yes” or “no.” Fault tree review, discussed 
later, is a technique using a starting scenario and an engaged audience to lead to 
uncovering and discovering risks across business processes, technical functions, and 
operational controls.
The process of risk management can be intimidating at first. By asking a few 
questions, you can begin to develop a baseline and understand the threats facing your 
organization.
View the CIS 
Cybersecurity Threats 
page

--- Página 8 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
6
Chapter 2: Risk
Where Risks Meet Controls
Using the CIS Controls to define and identify risk 
The CIS Controls are a set of prioritized actions to protect your organization and data 
from known cyber-attack vectors. They are developed and maintained by a global 
community of cybersecurity experts.
Aligning an organization’s internal security controls to a consensus-based collection of 
cyber-risk mitigation strategies like the CIS Controls can help improve cyber defenses. 
The integration of a risk management program with the CIS Controls can define how a 
company identifies risk and how it can be treated.
Treatment strategies come in the form of remediation steps to lower exposure to risk 
from vulnerabilities and threats to computer systems and business processes.
How the CIS Controls can help
CIS Controls Version 7.1, released in 2019, contains a total of 20 Controls and 171 Sub-
Controls. To help organizations prioritize their implementation of these security best 
practices, the CIS Controls are further split into three Implementation Groups (IGs). 
The Implementation Groups help organizations with limited cybersecurity resources 
plan and prioritize. However, the implementation of each CIS Control will vary by 
organization. To define the need for a Control, a risk that needs to be treated must be 
present. Identification of these risks may go undetected by many organizations; the CIS 
Controls can provide a helpful starting point of evaluation.
1
2
3
Implementation Group 1
An organization with limited 
resources and cybersecurity 
expertise available to implement 
Sub-Controls
CIS Sub-Controls for small, commercial 
off-the-shelf, or home office software 
environments where sensitivity of the 
data is low will typically fall under IG1. 
Remember, any IG1 steps should also 
be followed by organizations in IG2 
and IG3. 
Implementation Group 2
An organization with moderate 
resources and cybersecurity 
expertise to implement Sub-
Controls
CIS Sub-Controls focused on helping 
security teams manage sensitive client 
or company information fall under IG2. 
IG2 steps should also be followed by 
organizations in IG3.
Implementation Group 3
A mature organization with 
significant resources and 
cybersecurity experience to 
allocate to Sub-Controls
CIS Sub-Controls that reduce the impact 
of zero-day attacks and targeted 
attacks from sophisticated adversaries 
typically fall into IG3. IG1 and IG2 
organizations may be unable to 
implement all IG3 Sub-Controls.
Implementation Group 
Definitions

--- Página 9 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
7
Chapter 2: Risk
Your organization can gain major insights into its risk identification and management 
by turning each of the CIS Sub-Controls into a question and analyzing your answers 
to each. Start by reviewing some of the CIS Sub-Controls in IG1 as part of a risk 
identification exercise: 
•	 CIS Sub-Control 1.4: Does your organization have a detailed hardware 
asset inventory?
•	 CIS Sub-Control 1.6: Are there any connected assets which are not authorized to be 
on your network?
•	 CIS Sub-Control 2.1: Does your organization have a detailed software 
asset inventory?
•	 CIS Sub-Control 2.2: Is your organization’s software currently supported by 
the vendor?
These are high-level ideas to start the conversation in regards to risk and its 
identification. The use of the CIS Controls can generate questions that identify gaps 
and weaknesses. Use them to implement a level of risk management and respective 
control over your organization’s assets, data and systems.
The One Equation You Need to Calculate Risk-Reduction ROI
Evaluating internal systems and services is a key component to understanding your 
organization’s security maturity. One methodology is measuring your risk against 
the CIS Controls to determine the strength and weaknesses of risk treatment. Put 
simply, once you understand your risks, you’ll have a better idea of what it will take to 
proactively address them.
Inevitably there will be gaps—not just in your security processes and implementations, 
but also in the measurement of control effectiveness. These gaps should be identified 
and managed as action items to improve the overall security defense of your 
organization. The determining factor for many organizations is where to focus effort. 
Start by asking, “What will have the greatest effect on reducing risk?”
Calculating risk-reduction ROI
With any security decision, implementing new solutions and controls will likely require 
a monetary expense. This is where you’ll benefit from the ability to determine the cost 
of a potential risk versus the cost of the control. Here’s one way to calculate return on 
investment (ROI) to account for the cost of risk vs the cost of control:
Search and filter 
CIS Controls 
Implementation 
Groups
Download the CIS 
Controls

--- Página 10 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
8
Chapter 2: Risk
ROI = (reduction in risk $ − cost of control)
cost of control
Reduction in 
risk
 
= 
annualized rate 
of occurrence
 
× 
expected 
monetary loss 
for a single 
event
 
× 
reduction in 
probability of 
risk occurrence 
with the 
implemented 
control
ROI example
Let’s use phishing attacks as an example. Say your organization expects to get phished 
5 times per year, at an estimated cost of $35,000 per successful attack. The cost to train 
employees to spot and avoid phishing emails is expected to be $25,000. Here’s what the 
security ROI would look like:
Annualized rate of occurrence
5 per year
Expected monetary loss for a single event
$35,000
Reduction in probability of risk occurrence with implemented control
–85%
Cost of control
$25,000
Reduction in risk
:
5 × $35,000 × 0.85 = $148,750
ROI
:
($148,750 − $25,000) = 4.95
$25,000
Savings per year
:
$25,000 × 4.95 = $123,750
In this example, it makes monetary sense to invest the $25,000 in training to help 
reduce the risk of a successful phishing attack. Remember that each organization 
is different, and determining these variables will be based on circumstance and risk 
tolerance of the organization. As with any application of the CIS Controls, the cost to 
implement will depend on the estimation of risk reduction and other local factors.
Setting priorities
Looking into multiple cybersecurity solutions for the same risk? To compare mitigation 
strategies, run each one through the risk-reduction ROI formula above and determine 
which is best at reducing your risk surface. You can also use this formula to determine 
which risks are the most cost-effective to address and which will help prioritize your 
defense strategy.
Risk-Reduction ROI
Example: Phishing Attacks
Calculating Risk-Reduction 
ROI

--- Página 11 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
9
Chapter 2: Risk
Of course, any strategy must also be calibrated against the business’ operational and 
organizational goals, with respect to the risk of greatest importance or control deemed 
most crucial for cybersecurity. Nevertheless, this equation will prove useful in helping 
your organization review the cost of solutions per technical control.
Fault Trees and Risk Forests
Risk management and the elicitation of scenarios
Gather the appropriate stakeholders to start a risk-focused discussion. Be sure to 
focus on forecasted expectations and what should occur in your organization if those 
expectations fail to meet the forecast.
Use the following concepts to build a risk elicitation questionnaire, interview, or 
peer review:
•	 Risk triggers. Questions to review the underlying assumptions of currently-
held beliefs.
•	 Scenarios based on the triggers. Diagrammatic examples that will require 
weighted responses to a risk scenario.
Building a fault tree
Use the responses from the questionnaire to begin to build a fault tree to see where 
risks to the organization are greatest and how you might respond. Start building the 
fault tree using a specific high-level event, then determine the responses to risk using 
weighted examples.
The example in the diagram shows potential responses to malicious hacking. This 
scenario is used to determine whether the data within the organization is the most 
likely to be compromised or if the systems would be the most likely target.

--- Página 12 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
10
Chapter 2: Risk
IP Loss
IP Integrity
Compromised
Ransomware
Spyware
PII Stolen
DoS
Attack
System
Compromised
Network
Compromised
Data
Compromised
Malicious
Hacking
Given this analysis we can then look at the corresponding events that would lead the 
organization to the main outcome of malicious hacking. To build the tree, entertain 
multiple scenarios of how the top-level event could occur. In this tree we have restricted 
the number of potential leading events for brevity.
Responding to risk
After you’ve built out your fault tree it’s time to consider how your organization will 
respond to potential risk. If the data stolen is personally identifiable information (PII) 
such as phone numbers and home addresses, what is the duty of care to inform those 
whose data was stolen? If the data was intellectual property (IP), what is its value to the 
organization and how much was taken? These questions will put you on the journey 
to incident response and implementing protective controls for data loss prevention as 
mitigation strategies for risk.
As you move from outcomes to causes in the diagram, your organization can:
•	 Evaluate existing controls and risk management processes
•	 Determine the organization’s current risk posture
•	 Strategize about the future implementation of controls based on the likelihood and 
probability of compromise in the event of a data breach or technical failure
To greater improve your cyber defenses, consider developing multiple control scenarios 
for each event. You may want to follow existing best practices like the CIS Controls or 
frameworks such as NIST CSF.

--- Página 13 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
11
Chapter 2: Risk
Creating Event Trees to Help Measure Control Effectiveness
The transformation of a fault tree
Part of determining the best strategy for a set of controls involves employing 
techniques to evaluate the risk-reduction ROI as well as a review of measuring the 
effectiveness of the control. The next step is to transform the fault tree into an event 
tree. The event tree will help you create mitigation strategies for those faults you wish 
to control. It’s a helpful strategy for improving your defenses.
Building an event tree
To start our example, we will use the left side of the event tree in the following diagram:
Malicious
Hacking
Network
Compromised
CIS Control 13
Data Protection
Implement
DLP
Automated
Control
CIS Control 12
Boundary
Defense
Next Gen
Firewall
Automated
Control
Data
Compromised
In this example, data from the organization has been compromised due to malicious 
hacking. There are specific CIS Controls which can help prevent such a scenario from 
taking place and remediate the risk of a data compromise.
Measuring probability
Because no security control is 100% effective, each organization will need to establish 
a baseline for the probability of failure. This measurement will have to be gauged over 
time in order to provide the correct probabilities.
Here is an example set of data protection probability figures:
EVENT
IDENTIFIED EXFILTRATION
TOTAL TESTS
% PROBABILITY (P)
Event triggered
128
160
0.80
Caught exfiltration
157
160
0.98
Auto rejection
144
160
0.90

--- Página 14 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
12
Chapter 2: Risk
EVENT
DOMAIN
RESULT
Data exfiltration
NA
P = 1.00
Incident not triggered
Fail
P = 0.2
Incident triggered
Success
P = 1 – 0.2 = 0.8
DLP doesn’t catch exfil
Fail
P = 0.02 (1 – 0.98)
DLP catch exfil
Success
P = 0.98
Auto rejection fails
Fail
P = 0.10 (1 – 0.90)
Auto rejection works
Success
P = 0.90
Next, apply the probability to the diagram below to evaluate overall risk.
Incident
trigger
DLP rule
catches exfil
Automatic
rejection
Frequency
Data loss
event
Failure P = 0.20
Success P = 0.80
Success P = 0.98
Success P = 0.90
Success P = 0.71
Failure P = 0.07
Failure P = 0.10
Failure P = 0.02
Failure P = 0.02
Failure P = 0.20
By mapping out the total probabilities, we can see that the organization’s total success 
probability during the 3-step event is 71% compared to a total failure probability of 
29%. From a risk perspective, the company needs to decide, “Are we implementing 
a strong enough set of security controls across a particular platform to successfully 
implement the CIS Control 13 level of data protection?”
Each company’s requirements are different, but these types of evaluations will allow for 
a more stringent review of risk.
Risk and response
The aim of these exercises is to contemplate your organization’s risk and response 
activities. Allow for the review of multiple probabilities to understand risk mitigation 
strategies and their effective ROI.

--- Página 15 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
13
Chapter 3: Data Privacy and Protection
Chapter 3
Data Privacy and Protection
Threats and regulations shape cyber trends
Response planning and data privacy came to the forefront of cybersecurity around 
2018, with attacks such as Spectre and Meltdown. The year also ushered in new 
regulations concerning data protection including the EU General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR). These activities opened up fresh opportunities to review and 
advance our incident response planning and data management processes. Sadly, 
many organizations are still lagging behind when it comes to response planning and 
data privacy.
Understanding data flow
As we progress and complete the impact analysis and measure of risk for our 
organization, we need to understand the flow of data.
There are areas around data handling which every organization will need to review 
and fine-tune. Some questions to start your investigation:
•	 What data do we have?
•	 How do we use it?
•	 Where is it stored and processed?
The answers to these questions will form a reference point for your organization to 
gain a controlled foothold over its data and information management processes.
Your specific industry dictates the type of data you have (payment information, 
customer data, health records, etc.). The type will produce different answers. Still, the 
questions need to be asked, understood, and documented in a data protection plan 
(DPP). If you don’t have a DPP in place, now’s the time to start developing one.
Getting ready for the future
No matter what the future holds, you can improve your cyber defenses by 
implementing critical patches immediately and ensuring systems are up-to-date. 
Developing a DPP is another great step to take. A DPP can help with:
•	 Day-to-day management of information
•	 Preparing your organization for any future breach or incident which may occur
•	 Ensuring data within an organization is properly defined, labeled, and controlled
•	 Mitigating against ransomware attacks by limiting an attacker’s access to 
sensitive data
Webinar: Where 
Privacy Meets Security

--- Página 16 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
14
Chapter 3: Data Privacy and Protection
GDPR and Data Privacy
With privacy in mind, let’s examine the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
The requirements under the GDPR have provided a new compliance path for many 
organizations around the globe. This path has multiple steps in order to conform to the 
regulatory requirement. Let’s take a look at how organizations can take the first few 
steps towards GDPR compliance.
Who’s managing and accessing your data?
Think about the data your organization manages and how it is processed. Whether 
data management is an internal function or outsourced, if you are making decisions 
about how you collect data and how it is processed within your organization, you are a 
data controller.
The data controller is a specific role in GDPR. However, if you process requests for such 
actions (data processing or management) from a customer or data provider then it 
is more likely you are in the data processor role. No matter which roles apply to your 
organization, if your company handles EU citizens’ personal data, GDPR compliance is 
still required.
What data is now considered “personal”?
Personally identifiable information (PII) consists of typical data elements plus some 
other items that you may not have considered:
Personal Data
•	 Basic identity information such as name, address, and ID numbers
•	 Web data “online identifiers” such as location, IP address, cookie data, and RFID
Special Personal Data
•	 Health and genetic data
•	 Biometric data
•	 Racial or ethnic data
•	 Political opinions
•	 Sexual orientation
What is the intent of these privacy controls?
The purpose of GDPR is to institute specific controls in regards to how personal data is 
treated. The main focus is to create a set of standard operating procedures pertaining 
to how personal data is managed within organizations.

--- Página 17 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
15
Chapter 3: Data Privacy and Protection
Examples of such requirements are:
•	 Mandatory breach notifications. Requires a fast response or organizations could 
face large fines.
•	 The “right to be forgotten.” Necessitating the “ability to be found.”
•	 Consumer profiling restrictions. Personal data should not be used without 
consent, a specific approach to opt-in, and the ability to opt-out of consent for 
organizations to utilize personal data.
•	 Be accountable for your data. Conduct a privacy impact assessment to determine 
what type of personal data is handled, processed, and stored, and for what purpose.
•	 Access to personal data. Right to access; data should be controlled based on a 
“need to know” basis.
•	 Right to rectification. Right to update personal data and correct inaccuracies.
•	 Privacy by design. New functions and elements of future processing capability or 
personal data management must utilize this as a non-functional requirement in the 
conceptualization of the business process.
What should organizations do?
Several steps are required and each organization should review the GDPR to ensure 
specific requirements are met. Here are some key steps that can help you achieve 
GDPR compliance:
•	 Conduct a privacy impact assessment. This assessment will show you what data 
the organization owns which is personal data or special personal data.
•	 Examine data flows. Know where your data is, who has access to it, and for how 
long you keep it.
•	 Conduct a risk assessment. Based on the privacy impact assessment and the data 
flow review, you’ll emerge with a clearer picture of what risks the organization 
is accepting.
•	 Implement privacy by design. With GDPR, privacy must now be a consideration 
in change management, implementation of new systems, or business processes 
that handle PII.
•	 Implement security controls and measures. Employee training and security 
controls can help protect data.
•	 Working with third parties. If you engage data processors or controllers as part of 
your business, make sure to require GDPR compliance. If a failure in the third-party 
processes reveals PII to those who do not have a need to know, your organization 
will also be held liable.
•	 Hire a Data Protection Officer (DPO). Hire or assign the responsibility of a DPO; this 
role can encompass the responsibility of GDPR requirements.

--- Página 18 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
16
Chapter 3: Data Privacy and Protection
How can CIS help?
CIS has numerous resources which can help your organization work towards 
GDPR compliance.
CIS SecureSuite® Membership: Includes access to CIS-CAT® Pro Assessor configuration 
assessment tool, CIS-CAT Pro Dashboard web application with enhanced reporting 
features, CIS Build Kits for rapid implementation of secure CIS Benchmark 
configurations, and more.
CIS Hardened Images®: Bringing the security of the CIS Benchmarks™ to cloud 
computing environments on AWS Marketplace, Microsoft Azure Marketplace, Google 
Cloud Platform, and Oracle Cloud Marketplace.
CIS Controls: Prioritized best practices and policy guidance to help organizations 
defend against the vast majority of cyber threats.
Using CIS Control 13 to Create a Data Protection Plan
The CIS Controls Implementation Groups (IGs) take a horizontal look at cybersecurity 
tasks based on an organization’s available resources and maturity level. For CIS Control 
13, the IGs identify elements comprising a solid Data Protection Plan (DPP) for any size 
organization.
Elements of a DPP
•	 Objective. Specific to organizational security policies or regulatory controls such 
as GDPR/NIST.
•	 Roles and responsibilities. Addresses key roles in the organization and the data 
protection responsibilities of each.
•	 Data protection risks. Identifies potential security risks as related to sensitive data.
•	 Acceptable use policies. Applies to different classes of data within an organization.
•	 Data storage requirements. Must consider how to manage the storage size of data 
(including backups!).
•	 Data utilization. Addresses how data is used within the organization.
•	 Data integrity and assurance. Examines how to securely store and transfer data.
Download our white 
paper: Are you GDPR 
ready?

--- Página 19 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
17
Chapter 3: Data Privacy and Protection
How CIS Control 13 can help
Leveraging the CIS Controls IGs can help organizations with varying technical resources 
and capabilities build a DPP. The IGs provide a prioritized approach that starts with 
security essentials and expands into more advanced techniques. For example, an 
organization with very limited resources would start with three of the Sub-Controls 
from CIS Control 13:
•	 Inventorying sensitive information (13.1): You have to know what data is 
sensitive in your organization in order to determine which security controls need to 
be in place. 
•	 Removing sensitive systems and data which aren’t regularly accessed (13.2): 
Make sure your assets are properly segmented and disconnected when not in use. 
This will limit the chance that sensitive data is compromised in case of an attack.
•	 Encrypting data for mobile devices (13.6): As part of your organization’s mobile 
device policy, use approved whole disk encryption software.
SUB-
CONTROL
CONTROL 
TITLE
IMPLEMENTATION GROUPS
1
2
3
13.1
Maintain an Inventory of Sensitive Information
•
•
•
13.2
Remove Sensitive Data or Systems Not Regularly Accessed by Organization
•
•
•
13.3
Monitor and Block Unauthorized Network Traffic
•
13.4
Only Allow Access to Authorized Cloud Storage or Email Providers
•
•
13.5
Monitor and Detect Any Unauthorized Use of Encryption
•
13.6
Encrypt Mobile Device Data
•
•
•
13.7
Manage USB Devices
•
•
13.8
Manage System’s External Removable Media’s Read/Write Configurations
•
13.9
Encrypt Data on USB Storage Devices
•
More mature organizations should strive to implement additional CIS Sub-Controls as 
part of a growing DPP. See the chart below for more details.
CIS Control 13: 
Data Protection
Search and filter 
CIS Controls 
Implementation 
Groups

--- Página 20 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
18
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
Chapter 4
Strengthening Cyber Defenses 
How Security Controls Can Help Improve Your Cyber Defenses
Security is a journey, not a destination. It is important to understand that as security 
and IT introduce critical configurations and security controls, management will be 
required over time. A single audit of a configuration in the deployment of a new 
system is an important check in the beginning phase. It’s equally important to confirm 
over time that your initial deployment configurations are still accurate and compliant.
Measuring compliance
CIS offers two helpful resources that organizations can use to improve their cyber 
defense program. CIS Benchmarks are secure configuration guidelines and CIS- CAT 
is a configuration assessment tool. These tools align control with functionality and 
security with compliance.
The first step for any organization is to establish a baseline of security. This will be the 
secure image for any system deployed within an IT environment.
There can be hundreds of different configuration checks necessary to secure a 
particular operating system, server, or mobile device—this is where the free CIS 
Benchmarks recommendations can be extremely helpful. These recommendations are 
developed through hours of discussion and debate through our global community of 
volunteers via CIS WorkBench.
Are you a cloud-enabled enterprise? Check out CIS Hardened Images for a secure 
baseline. They’re available on AWS Marketplace, Microsoft Azure Marketplace, Google 
Cloud Platform, and Oracle Cloud Marketplace.
Once you’ve established a secure baseline for your image, it’s time to see how it stacks 
up to the CIS Benchmarks. CIS-CAT® Lite, our free tool, and CIS-CAT Pro, available 
through CIS SecureSuite Membership, both allow users to measure their compliance to 
the CIS Benchmark recommendations.
Register for the next 
CIS‑CAT Pro webinar

--- Página 21 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
19
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
Continuous monitoring
Once you’ve confirmed compliance to a baseline, there are two continuous monitoring 
items to consider:
1	 “Regular cadence” monitoring. This involves rechecking the systems to confirm their 
deployed compliant status is still in effect. How often this monitoring takes place 
could be based on criticality of the system, the size of data centers, or other factors. 
For example, critical systems may require weekly or monthly reviews while a large data 
operation may only require annual monitoring.
2	 Change management. This comes into play when a configuration is needed (such 
as the installation of particular applications or software) that is not aligned to the 
secure baseline. In these cases, the required change should be documented as part of 
a change management process. Be sure to document the impact of any configuration 
change on your system by running another compliance scan after the change has been 
implemented.
Paying attention to the process
If we maintain a process of control, compliance, and monitoring, it will allow for the 
creation of a complete asset management process, a configuration profile for deployed 
systems, and a managed process for incorporating changes into the system. Each part 
of this process will increase overall cyber hygiene and provide the impetus for maturing 
an information security program. Tools like CIS-CAT Pro can help organizations along 
the path to security and compliance.
Compliance in Multifaceted Environments
It has become a common practice to combine management of different technologies 
into a single process and expect that actions taken will occur in the same manner and 
time frame as when those processes were separate.
Compliance—with conditions!
At CIS we align best practices to processes and actions as a requirement. For IT teams, it 
is crucial to understand your hardware and software environments in order to maintain 
asset inventory and know what systems you have. Patching, updates, and remediating 
issues with configurations are all items that are specifically prescribed by CIS as basic 
elements of establishing and, more importantly, maintaining security control.
Issues may arise when the expectation is that management of Microsoft Windows and 
*nix environments (such as Unix and Linux) are the same: “Just update and make sure 
we are compliant.” If only it were that simple! In most cases, these processes (updating, 
vulnerability scanning, configuration management, etc.) should be specifically 
managed with respect to the underlying technologies.
Learn more about 
CIS SecureSuite 
Membership

--- Página 22 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
20
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
Specific controls and compliance requirements are set against each type of 
infrastructure. Therefore, automation and management of checks across the 
infrastructure is recommended. This will allow for a strategized solution to different 
pathways of patch management and to defining those systems where there are levels 
of criticality for securing infrastructure.
Critical patch management
In some cases, such as industrial control systems, the technologies involved are so 
critical that patch management cycles are built around a specific downtime. This leads 
to a conglomeration of patches all to be installed at a single point in time. Our warning 
when dealing with such critical systems is twofold:
•	 Test those patches in another environment for operational effectiveness
•	 Have a “back out” strategy should things go awry
It is not often that you will find a test environment that is an exact mirror of 
production, which means that testing can only go so far. For this reason, we 
suggest that technical teams always have a strategy to implement stability and re- 
apply a particular patch or update once the correct implementation strategy has 
been identified.
Cloud Compliance: How to Stay Secure on an Intangible Infrastructure
“If it is not my device, how do I control it?”
Security in the cloud can be a contentious topic. It has been challenging for users to 
define a set of criteria for cloud computing security and then be able to attest to its 
compliance. Over the past five years, cloud computing has become a strategic plan of 
action for many organizations, combining on-premises infrastructure with a virtual 
cloud network.
The appeal of cloud computing is hard to deny as a value proposition. It provides 
scalable infrastructure, on-demand responsiveness, and (based on the cloud provider) 
a multitude of services that augment the IT landscape. A key point to consider is that 
security is just as important in the cloud as it is on-prem.
Any strong IT security program will require that the following main areas are covered:
•	 Governance and policy
•	 Asset management
•	 Access control
•	 System development and maintenance
•	 Incident response
•	 Business continuity

--- Página 23 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
21
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
No matter the cloud provider, you’ll need to confirm that controls are in place 
addressing the topics above. Each of these topics can be addressed to ensure controls 
and a measurable level of compliance. With a relatively simple approach to each, you 
can work with cloud providers and maintain a level of compliant and auditable control 
over your virtual network.
Compliance in the cloud
Let’s examine each of the security topics in more detail and find a way to ensure 
security is top-of-mind in cloud computing environments.
Governance and policy. As a standard, leading cloud providers maintain compliance 
and security controls as part of their infrastructure. In some cases, this means the 
users employ a risk strategy—that is, the user undertakes a certain amount of risk by 
transferring the security requirements to the cloud provider(s). Check the cloud services 
agreement for details and don’t be afraid to ask about security processes and policies.
It’s worth noting that the roles and responsibilities for maintaining security will depend 
upon the platform, infrastructure, and software-as-a-service model selected by the user. 
This will influence the level of ownership and security responsibility for both the cloud 
provider and customer.
Asset management. In order to successfully manage your assets, you’ll want a record 
of what systems are deployed as well as any security level which may be defined for 
those systems. Some tips:
•	 Manage the addition of new instances through a change control process
•	 Assign ownership of assets
•	 Monitor any cloud account(s) through the provider’s management console and with 
your own organization’s accounts payable
Access control. As with any system, role-based security is paramount. Nothing changes 
with a cloud implementation in this case; you’ll want to audit, review, and control 
access based on a user’s “need to know” and RBAC.
System development and maintenance. Start this process by applying secure 
configuration standards like the CIS Benchmarks to any cloud-based environments. CIS 
Hardened Images are pre-configured virtual machine images for a variety of platforms 
and technologies. Using such pre-configured secure images saves time over manually 
hardening a virtual machine. CIS Hardened Images allow for the deployment of already 
compliant systems for a variety business purposes. For those developing software in the 
cloud, CIS Hardened Images provide convenient security from the start. Once secure 
configurations are in place, maintenance to prevent “configuration drift” is the next 
step; regularly compare cloud configurations to the secure baseline as part of your 
control framework.
Incident response. Communication is key when there is an incident in the cloud. Be 
sure to understand what role the user and cloud provider play in a security incident, as 
well as what the cloud provider can supply in terms of data. This response strategy may 
be utilized for testing the incident response process and ensuring both organizations 
know how the cloud provider’s supplied data will be utilized.

--- Página 24 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
22
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
The response strategy should be approved and documented within your organization’s 
incident response plan.
Business continuity. Consider what will happen if one or more of the systems 
upon which your organization relies fails. One of the many benefits of using cloud 
infrastructure is the ability to shift data quickly depending on your needs—should a 
natural disaster strike a main office, cloud-based services will run unaffected.
However, you’ll want to consider your cloud provider’s resiliency and disaster recovery 
strategy. What are their guarantees and limitations regarding up time? Based on this 
response, porting data to another cloud provider may be part of your organization’s 
business continuity strategy.
Don’t do it alone
Working in the cloud often provides organizations flexibility and convenience to scale 
their resources as needed. It also means working with others—such as cloud providers 
and IT staff—to ensure security measures are being implemented on the virtual 
network. Be sure to look into helpful resources like the CIS Hardened Images to help 
your organization stay secure in the cloud, and don’t be afraid to ask questions about 
your cloud provider’s security processes and procedures. With security in mind, the 
cloud can be a helpful extension of your organization’s IT infrastructure.
Discovering Security Gaps with Vulnerability Management Controls
Asking the question, “Where are my gaps and have I been tested?”
The process of managing an infrastructure and its security posture will require an 
approach that focuses on what hardware and software exist within your environment 
and ensures that it is authorized. CIS Control 1 and CIS Control 2 focus on creating and 
maintaining an inventory of approved hardware and software. You’ll want to revisit 
those recommendations if you’re just starting a security program.
Patching
It is at this point that we want to make sure that the approved and authorized 
infrastructure (including desktop computers, printers, routers/switches, and mobile 
devices) is secure. Over time software and firmware versions become outdated and 
require patching as new vulnerabilities are identified. “Patching” simply means 
applying updates to software or firmware, typically to remediate security flaws.
Patching is a cyclical process and must be done consistently. If it’s not, the 
organization’s exposure factor increases along with the risk of potential exploitation.
Explore CIS Hardened 
Images

--- Página 25 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
23
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
How CIS Control 3 can help manage vulnerabilities
To manage application vulnerability risks, organizations (regardless of size or maturity 
level) should implement CIS Control 3: Continuous Vulnerability Management. 
CIS Controls Implementation Group 1 (IG 1) describes a strong starting point for 
organizations with limited resources for cybersecurity:
•	 Deploying automated software tools for patch (update) management can help limit 
vulnerabilities
•	 Ensure your automated patch management tools cover both OS and software 
applications, so you’re always up-to-date
Organizations with more developed cyber defense programs in IGs 2 and 3 should 
strive for additional vulnerability management activities, such as: running automated 
scanning tools (3.1), comparing back-to-back scans (3.5), and implementing a risk-rating 
process (3.7). See which CIS Sub-Controls apply to each IG in the chart below.
SUB-
CONTROL
CONTROL 
TITLE
IMPLEMENTATION GROUPS
1
2
3
3.1
Run Automated Vulnerability Scanning Tools
•
•
3.2
Perform Authenticated Vulnerability Scanning
•
•
3.3
Protect Dedicated Assessment Accounts
•
•
3.4
Deploy Automated Operating System Patch Management Tools
•
•
•
3.5
Deploy Automated Software Patch Management Tools
•
•
•
3.6
Compare Back-to-Back Vulnerability Scans
•
•
3.7
Utilize a Risk-Rating Process
•
•
Is this all I have to do to be secure? 
Unfortunately, there is no silver bullet for cybersecurity. CIS Control 3 helps 
organizations define, enumerate, and remediate known vulnerabilities. Each of the CIS 
Sub-Controls will require time to implement and focused attention in order to have a 
greater chance of thwarting exposure, exploit, and compromise of your systems.
CIS Control 3: 
Continuous Vulnerability 
Management
Search and filter 
CIS Controls 
Implementation 
Groups

--- Página 26 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
24
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
Implementing Secure Configurations with CIS Build Kits
Resources like the CIS Benchmarks and CIS-CAT Pro help organizations around the 
world start secure and stay secure. The CIS-CAT Pro Assessor tool scans against a 
target system’s configuration settings and reports the system’s compliance to the 
corresponding CIS Benchmark. While it’s great to know where your systems stand, 
manually implementing the recommendations can be a daunting task. Another 
method for implementing the configuration guidelines recommended in the CIS 
Benchmarks is via CIS Build Kits, which help users automate the process.
Based on the internationally-recognized and community-developed CIS Benchmarks, 
a Build Kit takes those Benchmark recommendations and puts them into Microsoft 
Windows Group Policy Objects (GPOs) and shell scripts for *nix based systems (such 
as Unix or Linux). Available through CIS SecureSuite Membership, Build Kits provide 
another vector to distribute secure configurations though either the group policy 
management console within Microsoft Windows or via a shell within the *nix 
environments.
Moving towards confirmed compliance
CIS Build Kits can implement secure configuration settings in just a few minutes; 
however, there is one caveat. Not all recommendations from a particular CIS Benchmark 
can be deployed in this manner. For example, EMET recommendations are not included 
within the Microsoft Windows Build Kits, because it is an external download from 
Microsoft. Where the CIS Benchmarks provide recommendations and CIS-CAT Pro 
assesses for compliance, Build Kits provide the “glue” of assurance by implementing 
configurations.
To get started, organizations should first establish a benchmark requirement. Secure 
configuration requirements should be documented as part of the operational security 
standard. Next, deploy secure configurations—this can be a manual process, or it can 
be automated with Build Kits. Third, establish continued monitoring. Be sure to define 
how often you’re going to review and assess configurations. The decision could be 
based on resources, but in most cases a recommended approach is to tier systems-
based criticality and risk. Tiering systems based on this categorization will define what 
should be scanned more often and those third- or fourth-tier systems that can be 
scanned less often.
For example, let’s say Company A deploys CIS-CAT Pro to scan monthly on their critical 
infrastructure. CIS-CAT Pro will confirm compliance or may discover a configuration 
that is outside of the Benchmark recommendations. Company A has two options:
1	 Approve the change based on organizational needs and document a known deviation 
from the delivered Benchmark. As long as exceptions are documented, approved, and 
also referred to in the compliance check, Company A is still compliant.
2	 Recognize that an unauthorized change has occurred and correct the configuration 
either manually or with a CIS Build Kit.
Learn more and 
download a sample 
CIS Build Kit

--- Página 27 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
25
Chapter 4: Strengthening Cyber Defenses
Tips to Keep Your Employees Interested in Cybersecurity Awareness Training
As organizations work to make internal company processes and personnel more secure 
it’s worth asking, “Are we doing enough?” Rehashing an annual awareness training or 
a yearly email phishing campaign may not be enough to thwart ever-evolving attacks 
and nefarious activity.
Get interactive!
To combat “training fatigue,” which can lead to users not practicing what is preached as 
best controls, it makes sense to implement more interactive methods of cybersecurity 
policy awareness and training. These come in many forms:
•	 Phishing campaigns. Conducted by an internal “red team,” internal phishing 
campaigns can train employees to spot and report suspicious emails they 
may receive.
•	 Desktop/tabletop exercises. These cybersecurity exercises help employees learn 
how they would handle an incident such as a DDoS attack or website defacement.
•	 USB drops. Are your employees trained to handle a mysteriously-found USB device? 
Find out with these exercises.
Be sure that these training methods aren’t simply tested and then forgotten. 
Cybersecurity awareness comprises continual processes of integrating behavioral 
change into the business process. While technical controls can significantly improve 
security posture—implementing SPF, DKIM, or DMARC to reduce the risk of a successful 
phishing campaign, for example—it is important that the technical controls are not 
the only assessment performed against your organization. In addition to conducting 
training and awareness programs, managers should invest in understanding the 
analytics resulting from these programs.
Improving privacy and awareness
It’s essential that organizations implement security in the form of role-based access 
controls (RBAC). Privacy, a key component of GDPR in particular, has become a 
highlighted requirement for organizations, especially those who manage and 
safeguard personally identifiable information (PII). Each industry (health care, finance, 
academia, etc.) maintains data that requires a form of protection. As this data becomes 
more integrated across business units and functions, knowing what types of data 
you’re managing will allow specific training programs to be built.
Often, awareness training requires multiple approaches. For example, you might 
conduct a phishing exercise against a particular department or utilize a multi-email 
phishing approach for the whole organization. This can allow the organization to more 
authentically gauge clicks, versus the exercise-defeating murmurs of “Hey, don’t click 
that!” which can spread through an office quickly. You’ll also want to consider different 
learning styles. For some, a PowerPoint may be enough; others might require a more 
hands-on approach to security training. A strong training program is made up of 
multiple approaches that cover a variety of training techniques and learning styles.
CIS Control 17: 
Implement a Security 
Awareness and 
Training Program

--- Página 28 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
26
Additional Information
Additional Information
Resources
A list of all of the resources mentioned in this guide.
•	 CIS Benchmarks: https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/
•	 CIS Controls: https://www.cisecurity.org/controls/
•	 CIS Hardened Images: https://www.cisecurity.org/services/hardened-images/
•	 CIS SecureSuite Membership: https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-securesuite/
•	 CIS-CAT Lite: https://learn.cisecurity.org/cis-cat-landing-page
•	 Sample CIS Build Kit: https://learn.cisecurity.org/remediation-kits
•	 Webinar: CIS-CAT Pro Demo: https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/cis-
benchmarks-webinar/
•	 Webinar: Where Privacy Meets Security: https://www.cisecurity.org/webinar/
where-privacy-meets-security/
•	 White Paper: Are You GDPR Ready? https://learn.cisecurity.org/gdpr
About the Author
Sean Atkinson is Chief Information Security Officer of the Center for Internet Security, 
Inc. (CIS®). He uses his broad cybersecurity expertise to direct strategy, operations, and 
policy to protect CIS’ enterprise of information assets. His job responsibilities include 
risk management, communications, applications, and infrastructure. Prior to CIS, Sean 
served as the Global Information Security Compliance Officer for GLOBALFOUNDRIES, 
serving Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) across the globe.
Prior to GLOBALFOUNDRIES, Sean led the security implementation for the New 
York State Statewide Financial System (SFS) implementation from 2007 to 2014 and 
his last role and responsibility was as the Internal Control, Risk, and Information 
Security Manager.
Sean was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. and lived in England for 18 years, graduating from 
Sheffield Hallam University in 2000. After moving back to the United States, Sean has 
pursued multiple degrees and certifications in the IT arena.
In addition to his work with CIS, Sean is also an adjunct professor of Computer Science 
at the College of Saint Rose.

--- Página 29 ---
A CISO’s Guide to Bolstering Cyber Defenses
27
Additional Information
About CIS
CIS is a forward-thinking, non-profit entity that harnesses the power of a global IT 
community to safeguard private and public organizations against cyber threats.
The CIS Controls and CIS Benchmarks are the global standard and recognized best 
practices for securing IT systems and data against the most pervasive attacks. These 
proven guidelines are continuously refined and verified by a volunteer, global 
community of experienced IT professionals. Our CIS Hardened Images are virtual 
machine emulations preconfigured to provide secure, on-demand, and scalable 
computing environments in the cloud.
CIS is home to both the Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center® 
(MS‑ISAC®), the go-to resource for cyber threat prevention, protection, response, 
and recovery for U.S. State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial government entities, and the 
Elections Infrastructure Information Sharing and Analysis Center® (EI-ISAC®), which 
supports the cybersecurity needs of U.S. State, Local and Territorial elections offices.
Contact Information
Center for Internet Security, Inc.
31 Tech Valley Drive
East Greenbush, NY 12061
518-266-3460
learn@cisecurity.org

