=== BSI 200-1 (2).pdf ===

--- Página 2 ---
1 
Introduction 
Page 2 
Information Security Management Systems – Community Draft 
BSI Standard 200-1 
Information Security Management Systems (ISMS) 
Version 1.0, October 2017

--- Página 3 ---
Table of contents 
Information Security Management Systems – Community Draft 
Page 3 
 
Copyright © 2017  
Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) 
Godesberger Allee 185-189, 53175 Bonn, Germany

--- Página 4 ---
Table of contents 
Information Security Management Systems – Community Draft 
Page 4 
Table of contents 
Table of contents 
4 
1 
Introduction 
6 
1.1 
Version history 
6 
1.2 
Objective 
6 
1.3 
Addressees 
7 
1.4 
Application 
8 
2 
Introduction to information security 
9 
2.1 
Overview of standards for information security 
9 
2.1.1 
ISO standards on information security 
10 
2.1.2 
Selected BSI publications and standards on information security 
11 
IT-Grundschutz 
11 
Series of BSI standards on information security: Topic IS management 
12 
Information security revision policy based on IT-Grundschutz 
13 
2.1.3 
Additional standards 
14 
COBIT 5 A Business Framework for the Governance and Management of Enterprise IT 
14 
ITIL 
14 
PCI DSS 
14 
NIST 
14 
ISF – The Standard of Good Practice 
14 
3 
ISMS definition and process description 
16 
3.1 
Components of an information security management system 
16 
3.2 
Process description and lifecycle model 
18 
3.2.1 
The lifecycle in information security 
18 
3.2.2 
Description of the information security process 
18 
4 
Management principles 
20 
4.1 
The tasks and duties of management 
20 
4.2 
Communication and knowledge 
22 
4.3 
Performance review within the security process 
24 
4.4 
Continuous improvement of the security process 
24 
5 
Resources for information security 
25 
6 
Involving employees in the security process 
26 
7 
The security process 
27 
7.1 
Planning of the security process 
27 
7.2 
Establishing a security organisation [DOC] 
28 
7.3 
Implementation of the information security policy 
29 
7.4 
Maintaining information security 
29 
7.5 
Continuous improvement of information security 
30 
8 
Security concept 
31

--- Página 5 ---
Information Security Management Systems – Community Draft 
Page 5 
8.1 
Creating a security concept 
31 
8.2 
Implementation of the security concept 
34 
8.3 
Performance review of the security concept 
35 
8.4 
Continuous improvement of the security concept 
36 
9 
Certification of the ISMS 
37 
10 
The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
38 
10.1 
Introduction 
38 
10.2 
The security process in accordance with IT-Grundschutz 
38 
10.2.1 
Integrated risk assessment in IT-Grundschutz 
39 
10.2.2 
Security concept 
41 
11 
Appendix 
44 
11.1 
References 
44

--- Página 6 ---
Table of contents 
Information Security Management Systems – Community Draft 
Page 6 
1 Introduction 
1 Introduction 
1.1 Version history 
BSI standard 200-1 supersedes BSI standard 100-1. 
As per 
Version 
Changes 
April 2017 
 CD 1.0 
Updated based on BSI standard 100-1 
• 
Adaptations to updated ISO standards  
• 
Adaptations to BSI standard 200-2  
(IT-Grundschutz methodology) 
October 
2017 
V 1.0 
User comments incorporated 
• 
substantially language-related clarifications 
• 
Differentiation between the German terms Norm and Standard 
 
1.2 Objective 
Today, the increasing digitalisation and networking of the work environment presents companies and 
government agencies with fundamental challenges. Likewise, the basic threat situation for information 
security in companies and government agencies is very dynamic and diverse. In order to be able to 
operate business processes or specialised tasks with the help of IT, whether offline or online, in a se-
cure manner and to thus also be competitive in the long run, organisations must increasingly address 
the questions in the field of information security in an improved manner. The developments in the 
field of information technology today are characterised by shorter and shorter innovation cycles. 
Likewise, the technical systems are characterised by an increased complexity. The dependency on 
working technology is increasing in more and more areas of public and business life. The networking 
and control of industrial facilities, Smart Home, Internet of Things, and Connected Cars will present 
security experts and users with additional challenges in the years to come. Meanwhile, the manage-
ment of organisations must increasingly address the question of the possible effects of a cyber attack, 
for example. In addition to one’s own organisations, customers, suppliers, and business partners, as 
well as additional groups may be affected. Therefore, the approach by all those involved must be 
planned and organised in order to be able to establish and maintain and continuously improve an ap-
propriate and sufficient level of security.  
In practice, it often proves difficult to establish and maintain an appropriate and sufficient level of 
security in the long run. In combination with the increasing complexity of the IT systems, a lack of 
resources and austerity budgets continuously present the persons in charge with new challenges. Due 
to the shorter and shorter development cycles, even tried and tested security mechanisms require con-
stant adaptation or even re-design. In the long run, a static solution is not capable of providing an ap-
propriate level of security. However, the common belief that security safeguards would inevitably be 
associated with high investments in security technology and highly specialised security experts is not 
true. The most important success factors include common sense, thought-through organisational regu-
lations, and reliable, well-informed employees implementing the security requirements in a self-
dependent and experienced manner. Hence, the development and implementation of an efficient secu-
rity concept does not necessarily have to be unaffordable and the most efficient safeguards may prove 
surprisingly simple. 
Thus, security must be an integral part of planning, design, and operation of business processes and 
information processing. As a consequence, comprehensive organisational and personnel measures

--- Página 7 ---
Information Security Management Systems – Community Draft 
Page 7 
must be taken. Information security management based on IT-Grundschutz includes infrastructural, 
organisational, and personnel aspects, in addition to technical aspects. Only a holistic approach re-
garding the increase of information security may affect all levels in a sustainable manner.  
An appropriate level of security primarily depends on the systematic approach and only secondarily 
on the individual technical measures. The following considerations illustrate this hypothesis and the 
importance of the management level regarding the security process: 
• 
the management level is responsible for ensuring that statutory regulations and contracts with 
third parties are complied with and that important business processes are not disrupted. 
• 
The management level is the instance making the decisions on how to handle risks. 
• 
Information security has interfaces with many areas of an organisation and affects highly im-
portant business processes and tasks. Therefore, only the management level can ensure that 
information security management is integrated smoothly in existing organisational structures 
and processes. 
• 
Furthermore, the management level is responsible for the efficient deployment of resources. 
Thus, the management level has a high degree of responsibility in the field of information security. A 
lack of supervision, an unsuitable security strategy, or wrong decisions may have far-reaching nega-
tive effects as a result of both security incidents and missed opportunities and bad investments. In-
volving the management level intensively is absolutely necessary: information security is a top man-
agement priority! 
This standard therefore describes, in a step-by-step fashion, how successful information security man-
agement may be established and which tasks the management level in government agencies and com-
panies will have in this context. 
1.3 Addressees 
This BSI standard 200-1 is primarily intended for persons in charge of information security, security 
officers, security experts, security consultants, and all parties interested charged with information se-
curity management. Likewise, it forms a reasonable basis for the persons in charge of IT and Industri-
al Control Systems (ICS), managers and project managers ensuring that the aspects of information 
security management are adequately taken into account in their organisation and projects. 
Efficiently managing information security is not only an important issue for large organisations, but 
also for small and medium-sized government agencies and companies as well as for the self-
employed. The design of an appropriate information security management system depends on the size 
of the organisation. This standard including the practice-oriented IT-Grundschutz recommendations 
supports persons in charge wishing to improve the information security in their area of influence. 
Hereinafter, information will be provided continuously on how the recommendations of this standard 
can be adapted adequately depending on the size of the organisation.

--- Página 8 ---
Table of contents 
Page 8 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
1.4 Application 
The present standard describes how an information security management system (ISMS) can be de-
signed. A management system encompasses all the provisions ensuring the supervision and manage-
ment so that the organisation can achieve its objectives. An information security management system 
therefore specifies the instruments and methods that the management level of an organisation should 
use to comprehensibly manage the tasks and activities aimed at achieving information security. 
This BSI standard provides answers to, among other things, the following questions: 
• 
What are the success factors in the field of information security management? 
• 
How can the security process be managed and monitored by the management responsible? 
• 
How are security objectives and an appropriate security strategy developed? 
• 
How are security safeguards selected and security concepts drawn up? 
• 
How can an already achieved level of security be maintained and improved in the long run? 
This management standard provides a clear overview of the most important tasks of security manage-
ment. The BSI provides assistance with implementing these recommendations in the form of the IT-
Grundschutz methodology. The IT-Grundschutz provides different sizes and types of organisations 
with step-by-step guides to developing an information security management in practice and gives spe-
cific safeguards for all aspects of information security. The IT-Grundschutz methodology is described 
in BSI standard 200-2 (see [BSI2]) and is designed in a way that a level of security can be achieved 
that is appropriate regarding both the basic threat situation and the business objectives. In addition to 
this, requirements for the practical implementation of the appropriate level of security are formulated 
in the IT-Grundschutz compendium. 
If the term “IT system” is used in this standard, this term shall not only refer to “classical” IT systems 
such as servers, personal computers, smartphones or network components. Here, the term “IT sys-
tems” also includes Industrial Control Systems (ICS) as well as components from the field of Internet 
of Things (IoT).

--- Página 9 ---
Table of contents 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 9 
2 Introduction to information security 
2 Introduction to information security 
What is information security? 
Information security has the objective of protecting information of any type and origin. In this, infor-
mation might be stored on paper, in IT systems, or even inside the users’ heads. As a subset of infor-
mation security, IT security focuses on the protection of electronically stored information and its pro-
cessing.  
The classical basic values of information security include confidentiality, integrity, and availability. 
Many users include additional basic values in their considerations. Depending on the individual use 
cases, this may be very helpful. Further generic umbrella terms in the field of information security, for 
example, include authenticity, reliability, reliableness, resilience, and non-repudiation. 
Information security is not only threatened by wilful acts (e.g. malware, interception of communica-
tions, or computer theft). The following examples illustrate the aforementioned: 
• 
Force majeure (e.g. fires, flooding, storms, and earthquakes) affects data storage media and IT 
systems or blocks access to the computer centre. Documents, IT systems, or services are no 
longer available as required. 
• 
After an unsuccessful software update, applications cease to function or data has been modi-
fied without this being noticed. 
• 
An important business process is delayed, because the only employees familiar with the soft-
ware application are ill. 
• 
Confidential information is inadvertently passed on to unauthorised persons by an employee, 
because documents or files have not been marked “confidential”. 
Choice of words: IT security versus information security and cyber security 
Since the electronic processing of information is omnipresent in virtually all areas of our lives, distin-
guishing between whether information is processed using information technology, communications 
technology, or on paper is no longer up-to-date. The term “information security” instead of IT security 
is therefore more comprehensive and more appropriate. However, it should be noted that the term “IT 
security” still is frequently used in the literature (among other things, because it is shorter), even if 
“information security” often is what is meant. The field of action of classical IT security is expanded 
to the entire cyberspace under the term “cyber security”. This term includes the entire information 
technology connected to the Internet and comparable networks and also includes communications, 
applications, processes, and processed information based thereon. 
2.1 Overview of standards for information security 
In the field of information security, many different standards have been developed partially focusing 
on other target groups or topics. The use of security standards in companies and government agencies 
does not only improve the level of safety, it additionally facilitates the coordination between different 
organisations regarding the security safeguards to be implemented in what form. The following over-
view shows the orientations of the most important standards.

--- Página 10 ---
2 
Introduction to information security 
Page 10 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
2.1.1 ISO standards on information security 
In the international standardisation organisations ISO and IEC, the standards on information security 
are merged in the continuously growing 2700x series. Internationally, these standards are called 
standards. These international standards are partly available as translated DIN standards. 
The most important standards of the ISO/IEC 2700x series include: 
ISO/IEC 27000 (Information security management systems – Overview and vocabulary) 
This standard provides an overview of information security management systems (ISMS) and on the 
correlations of the different standards of the ISO/IEC 2700x family. Furthermore, the standard in-
cludes the basic terms and definitions for ISMSs. 
ISO/IEC 27001 (Information security management systems – Requirements) 
The ISO standard 27001 is an international standard on information security management also allow-
ing for certification. On approx. 9 pages, the ISO/IEC 27001 provides normative specifications re-
garding the implementation, operation, and enhancement of a documented information security man-
agement system. In a normative annex, more than a hundred safeguards (controls) are mentioned that 
should be selected in consideration of the relevant risks. However, the readers are not provided with 
any assistance for practical implementation. 
Up to now, the requirements of the ISO/IEC 27001 oriented on a lifecycle model also referred to as 
PDCA cycle according to the names of the different phases (“Plan”, “Do”, “Check”, “Act”). In order 
to achieve compatibility with annex SL (policy for developing and reviewing ISO standards for man-
agement systems), the PDCA cycle is no longer mentioned explicitly in the reviewed version of the 
ISO/IEC 27001. This is intended to make clear that the sequence of the individual requirements in the 
standard does not allow to draw any conclusion regarding their respective importance or their imple-
mentation sequence. Any activities related to establishing and operating the ISMS can still be per-
formed according to the PDCA cycle, however. 
ISO/IEC 27002 (Code of practice for information security controls) 
This standard supports in the selection and implementation of the safeguards described in ISO/IEC 
27001 in order to establish a working security management and embed it in the organisation. The se-
curity safeguards appropriate in this regard are described on the 90 pages of the standard ISO/IEC 
27002. The recommendations are primarily intended for the management level and therefore hardly 
include any technical information. The implementation of the security recommendations of ISO/IEC 
27002 is one of many options for fulfilling the requirements of the ISO standard 27001. 
ISO/IEC 27004 (Monitoring, measurement, analysis and evaluation) 
The ISO standard 27004 addresses the evaluation of the implementation and efficiency of an ISMS 
based on different variables. 
ISO/IEC 27005 (Information security risk management) 
This standard includes framework recommendations for information security risk management. 
Among other things, it supports in the implementation of the recommendations from ISO/IEC 27001. 
However, no specific risk management method is specified in so doing. This standard in turn is main-
ly based on the standard ISO/IEC 31000 Risk management – Principles and guidelines on implemen-
tation (see [31000]). The supporting standard ISO/IEC 31010 Risk assessment techniques (see 
[31010]) includes a description on how risk assessment can be integrated in a risk management sys-
tem and how risks can be identified, evaluated, assessed, and handled. Annex B of ISO 31010 pro-
vides a comprehensive overview of risk assessment methods, 31 different methods are mentioned 
here. 
ISO/IEC 27006 (Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of information security 
management systems)

--- Página 11 ---
2 
Introduction to information security 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 11 
The ISO standard 27006 specifies requirements regarding the accreditation of certification bodies for 
ISMSs and also addresses specifics of the ISMS certification processes. 
ISO/IEC 27009 (Sector-specific application of ISO/IEC 27001 – Requirements) 
The ISO standard 27009 describes how sector-specific enhancements (e.g. from the fields of Energy, 
Cloud Computing, Finances) may be incorporated in an ISMS according to ISO/IEC 27001 in the fu-
ture and be taken into account as requirements there. For this, individual safeguards from the annex of 
ISO/IEC 27001 can be enhanced and complemented. 
Sector-specific standards (ISO/IEC 27010 – ISO/IEC 27019) 
Many sector-specific standards (e.g. ISO/IEC 27019 for the energy industry) are developed based on 
the ISO/IEC 27009. 
Additional standards of the ISO 2700x series 
The ISO 2700x series of standards will presumably consist of the ISO standards 27000 – 271xx in the 
long run. All standards of this series address different security management aspects and refer to the 
requirements of ISO/IEC 27001. The further standards are intended to provide a better understanding 
and practical applicability of ISO/IEC 27001. For example, these address the practical implementation 
of ISO/IEC 27001 and methods regarding the continuity of business processes. 
2.1.2 Selected BSI publications and standards on information security  
IT-Grundschutz 
Since 1994, IT-Grundschutz is the BSI’s methodology for information security. IT-Grundschutz is a 
holistic approach regarding the implementation of an appropriate information security for organisa-
tions of any type and size. With the combination of the IT-Grundschutz approaches for basic, standard 
and core safeguards, described in BSI-Standard 200-2 IT-Grundschutz methodology, and the IT-
Grundschutz compendium containing security requirements for the most different deployment envi-
ronments, IT-Grundschutz offers an efficient and effective tool for selecting and adapting adequate 
safeguards regarding the safe handling of information for an organisation. Right from the beginning, 
IT-Grundschutz has been designed to be adapted modularly to different deployment environments by 
the users. In this regard, the BSI continuously updates and enhances it. 
Political framework conditions such as the German IT Security Act, the very dynamic topic of infor-
mation security, as well as the increasingly more professional cyber attacks tipped the balance to a 
fundamental re-modernisation of the IT-Grundschutz. With the present BSI standards 200-1 to 200-3, 
this resulted in additional approaches allowing for gradually getting started regarding a security man-
agement. These are complemented by IT-Grundschutz modules summarised in the IT-Grundschutz 
compendium. Figure 1 illustrates the structure of the IT-Grundschutz documents.

--- Página 12 ---
2 
Introduction to information security 
Page 12 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
 
Figure 1: Overview of BSI publications on security management 
The IT-Grundschutz compendium has a modular design and includes process and system modules for 
typical business processes, applications, systems, communication connections, and rooms. The mod-
ules applicable to the framework conditions of one’s own organisation can be used as required. IT-
Grundschutz addresses all areas that may be found in organisations. Along with organisation and per-
sonnel, this also includes IT operations, but also production and manufacture using Industrial Control 
Systems (ICS), as well as components from the field of Internet of Things (IoT).  
Every module includes a short description of the topic and the objective that is to be achieved by im-
plementing the module, as well as a delimitation regarding other modules related regarding the topic. 
Furthermore, there is an overview of the specific threats of the topic under consideration. The security 
requirements for the basic, standard, and core safeguards form the core of every module.  
Additionally, there may be implementation recommendations for the modules of the IT-Grundschutz 
compendium. These describe how the requirements of the modules can be satisfied in practice and 
include appropriate security safeguards including detailed descriptions that are based on the wealth of 
experience and best practices of BSI and IT-Grundschutz users. 
The modules of the IT-Grundschutz compendium and the implementation recommendations are up-
dated and expanded at regular intervals. Therefore, they are published as a printed version and addi-
tionally on the Internet for free. 
Series of BSI standards on information security: Topic IS management 
200-1 
Information security management systems (ISMS) 
The present standard defines general requirements for an ISMS. Therein, it is described which safe-
guards can be used to generally initiate, control, and monitor information security in an organisation. 
The BSI standard 200-1 is completely compatible with the ISO/IEC 27001 standard and furthermore 
takes into account the terms defined in ISO standard ISO/IEC 27000 as well as the recommendations 
in ISO standard ISO/IEC 27002. It provides readers with an easy to understand and systematic guide 
irrespective of which method an organisation wants to use in order to implement the requirements for 
an ISMS. 
The BSI renders the content of the ISO standards mentioned above in its own BSI standard in order to 
be able to describe some topics in greater detail and thus allow for a didactically improved representa-

--- Página 13 ---
2 
Introduction to information security 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 13 
tion of the content. Furthermore, the structure has been designed in such a way that it is compatible 
with the IT-Grundschutz methodology.  
200-2 
IT-Grundschutz methodology 
The IT-Grundschutz methodology explains, in a step-by-step fashion, how an information security 
management system can be established and operated in practice. The information security manage-
ment tasks and the design of an organisational structure for information security are important topics 
in this regard. The IT-Grundschutz methodology goes into great detail on how a security policy can be 
developed in practice, how appropriate security requirements can be selected, and what should be 
considered when implementing the security policy. It also answers the question of how to maintain 
and improve information security during routine operation. 
In order to allow for gradually getting started regarding security management, different methodologies 
are offered depending on the level of security aimed at and the information to be secured. Depending 
on which information security methodologies are already present within the organisation, it may be 
expedient to initially deviate from the “complete” IT-Grundschutz methodology (“standard safe-
guards”). For example, an organisation may aim at initially implementing all basic requirements 
(“basic safeguards”) as comprehensively as possible in order to reduce the major risks as quickly as 
possible, before the actual security requirements are analysed in detail. Another thinkable methodolo-
gy is to initially focus on protecting the essential values of the organisation (“core safeguards”). 
Based on the BSI standard 200-2, IT-Grundschutz interprets the general requirements and security 
safeguards of the above-mentioned ISO standards 27001 and 27002 and supports the users regarding 
the practical implementation by providing comprehensive information, background information, and 
examples. The modules of the IT-Grundschutz compendium explain what should be done; the imple-
mentation recommendations provide very specific information as to how a requirement (also on a 
technical level) can be fulfilled. Thus, proceeding according to IT Grundschutz is a proven and effi-
cient option of fulfilling all requirements of the above-mentioned ISO standards. 
200-3 
Risk analysis on the basis of IT-Grundschutz 
The BSI has worked out a methodology for risk analysis on the basis of IT-Grundschutz. The BSI 
standard 200-3 describes how, based on the IT-Grundschutz methodology, a simplified analysis of 
risks for information processing can be carried out. This is based on the elementary threats described 
in the IT-Grundschutz compendium and also forming the basis for drawing up the IT-Grundschutz 
modules. This methodology can be used when companies or government agencies are already working 
successfully with IT-Grundschutz and would like to add a risk analysis to the IT-Grundschutz analysis 
as seamlessly as possible. 
100-4 
Business continuity management 
In the BSI standard 100-4, a methodology for establishing and maintaining an agency- or company-
wide business continuity management is explained. In this, the methodology described herein builds 
upon the IT-Grundschutz methodology “standard safeguards” described in BSI standard 200-2 and 
reasonably complements this methodology. 
Information security revision policy based on IT-Grundschutz 
Information security revision (IS revision) is a part of every successful information security manage-
ment. Only by regularly reviewing the established security safeguards and the information security 
process is it possible to make statements regarding their efficient implementation, up-to-dateness, 
completeness, and appropriateness, and thereby regarding the current status of information security. 
Hence, the IS revision is a tool for determining, achieving, and maintaining an appropriate level of 
security within an organisation. In this regard, the BSI developed a method by means of the IS revi-
sion policy based on IT-Grundschutz (see [BSIR]) that is designed to determine the information secu-
rity status in an organisation and to be able to identify vulnerabilities.

--- Página 14 ---
2 
Introduction to information security 
Page 14 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
2.1.3 Additional standards 
COBIT 5 A Business Framework for the Governance and Management of Enterprise IT 
COBIT 5 considers IT to be the essential basis of an organisation regarding the achievement of the 
business objectives and requires that the business strategy objectives are incorporated in the IT objec-
tives and that the services provided meet the quality requirements of the business processes. Like 
ITIL, COBIT 5 relies on targeted, optimised IT processes. COBIT 5 introduces the process potential 
aspect, addressing the extent to which an organisation is able to achieve the required objectives in a 
reliable and sustainable manner. The overview of the maturity of all 37 process areas, grouped into 
five domains, can be used to derive the professionalism of the supporting IT processes. The COBIT 
documents are published by the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). When 
drawing up COBIT, the authors oriented on existing standards regarding the topic of security man-
agement, particularly ISO/IEC 27002. 
ITIL 
The IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) is a collection of several books on the topic of IT-Service-
Management. It was developed by the British Office of Government Commerce (OGC). ITIL address-
es the management of IT services from the IT service provider’s point of view. In this, the IT service 
provider may be both an internal IT department and an external service provider. The overall objec-
tive is to optimise and improve the quality of IT services and the cost efficiency. Information security 
is considered from the operative perspective within the framework of the considered services. By the 
same token, working IT operations are an essential buttress for the ISMS, which is why many disci-
plines of ITIL can be found similarly in IT-Grundschutz and other security standards, but with the 
focus on information security. 
Based on ITIL, the standard ISO/IEC 20000 was drawn up that can be used as the basis for certifying 
a service management system. 
PCI DSS  
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is published by a consortium of lead-
ing credit card organisations. It was drawn up by the PCI Security Standards Council and formulates 
security requirements regarding the processing of credit card transactions. The requirements of PCI 
DSS must be implemented by all organisations storing, processing, or transmitting card holder data of 
credit cards, e.g. by dealers accepting credit card payments or by service providers further processing 
these by order.  
NIST 
The U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a federal agency responsible for 
developing standards, among other things. These standards are binding for U.S. government agencies. 
In the series Special Publication 800 (NIST SP 800 series), the NIST regularly publishes documents 
on individual information security topics (cryptography, cloud computing, etc.) not only providing 
valuable information, but also having comprehensive international influence on the design of infor-
mation security.  
In this, the document NIST SP 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems 
and Organizations summarises a large number of so-called controls for the field of security manage-
ment that may be used in order to protect information clusters. The controls are grouped into diverse 
areas according to topics belonging together (e.g. training and awareness-raising measures, authorisa-
tion management, infrastructure security). 
ISF – The Standard of Good Practice  
The Information Security Forum (ISF) is an independent and globally active organisation for infor-
mation security. With the Standard of Good Practice (SoGP), the ISF publishes an information secu-
rity policy based on recognised “best practices”. According to their own statements, the practice-
oriented policy covers the requirements of the standards ISO/IEC 27002, COBIT 5, PCI DSS 3.1 and

--- Página 15 ---
2 
Introduction to information security 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 15 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework. The SoGP groups the different topics into diverse areas (e.g. security 
governance, information risk assessment).

--- Página 16 ---
3 
ISMS definition and process description 
Page 16 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
3 ISMS definition and process description  
3.1 Components of an information security management system 
On the one hand, the term management refers to the management level, i.e. the entirety of the manag-
ers of an organisation, and, on the other hand, it generally also refers to the task of managing the or-
ganisation. For the purpose of differentiation, the group of responsible managers shall hereinafter be 
referred to as “management level”, when referring to the responsible managers and when there is a 
risk of confusion with the term “management” as an activity (supervising, directing, and planning). 
 
Figure 2: Components of an information security management system (ISMS) 
A management system embraces all the policies pertaining to supervision and management for the 
purpose of achieving the organisation’s objectives. The part of the management system dealing with 
information security is referred to as the information security management system (ISMS). The ISMS 
specifies the instruments and methods that the management level should use to clearly manage (plan, 
adopt, implement, supervise and improve) the tasks and activities aimed at achieving information se-
curity. ISMS involves the following essential components (see Figure 2): 
• 
management principles 
• 
resources 
• 
employees 
• 
security process 
o information security policy which the security objectives and strategies for their imple-
mentation are documented in 
o security concept 
o security organisation

--- Página 17 ---
3 
ISMS definition and process description 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 17 
 
Figure 3: Information security strategy as a central component of the ISMS 
The security strategy serves for orientation for planning the next steps in order to achieve the security 
objectives set. The strategy is specified by the management level and is based on the company’s busi-
ness objectives or the government agency’s role. In this, security policy and security concept are the 
tools of the management regarding the implementation of the security strategy.  
Figure 3 and Figure 4 illustrate this interrelationship more clearly. The central points of the security 
strategy are documented in the information security policy. The security policy is of primary im-
portance, since it contains a visual record of the management level’s commitment to its strategy. 
 
Figure 4: Implementation of the security strategy with the help of the security concept  
and an information security organisation

--- Página 18 ---
3 
ISMS definition and process description 
Page 18 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
3.2 Process description and lifecycle model 
3.2.1 
The lifecycle in information security 
Security is not a permanent state which, once achieved, will never change. Every organisation is sub-
ject to constant change. Many of these changes also affect information security, along with changes in 
the business processes, specialised tasks, infrastructure, organisational structures and the IT. Besides 
the obvious changes within an organisation, changes to external framework conditions may also oc-
cur, for example, the statutory or contractual stipulations as well as the available information and 
communications technologies might change considerably. Due to new attack methods or vulnerabili-
ties, security concepts and safeguards may partially or completely become inefficient. It is therefore 
necessary to actively manage information security so that the level of security that has been reached 
can be maintained and improved on a continuous basis. 
It is not sufficient, for instance, to plan the implementation of business processes or the introduction 
of a new IT system just once and then implement the agreed security safeguards. After security safe-
guards have been implemented, they must be examined regularly to ensure they are effective, appro-
priate, applicable, and also actually being applied. If vulnerabilities or opportunities for improvements 
are discovered, the safeguards must be adapted and improved. The necessary adaptations and changes 
again require planning and implementation. If business processes are terminated or components and 
IT systems are replaced or shut down, security aspects must also be considered in so doing (e.g. the 
withdrawal of authorisations or the secure deletion of hard drives). As a consequence, the security 
safeguards are grouped into the following phases for a clearer overview in the implementation rec-
ommendations regarding the modules of the IT-Grundschutz compendium: 
• 
planning and design, 
• 
purchasing (if necessary), 
• 
implementation, 
• 
operation (measures for maintaining information security during normal operation including 
monitoring and performance review), 
• 
discharge (if required), and 
• 
contingency planning. 
3.2.2 
Description of the information security process  
Such a “lifecycle” does not only apply to business processes and IT systems. A security strategy, a 
security concept, a security organisation, and ultimately the entire security process are subject to a 
lifecycle. In order to describe the dynamics of the security process as simply as possible, it is fre-
quently divided into the following phases in the literature: 
1. planning, 
2. implementing the plan and carrying out the project, 
3. performance review and/or monitoring the achievement of objectives, and 
4. eliminating discovered flaws and vulnerabilities and making optimisations and improvements. 
Phase 4 describes the immediate elimination of minor flaws. If fundamental or extensive changes are 
needed, one must of course return to the planning phase again. 
This model is named after the individual phases (“Plan”, “Do”, “Check”, “Act”) and is thus also re-
ferred to as the PDCA cycle.

--- Página 19 ---
3 
ISMS definition and process description 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 19 
 
Figure 5: Lifecycle according to Deming (PDCA cycle) 
As a matter of principle, the PDCA cycle can be applied to all tasks within the security process. The 
lifecycle of the security concept and the security organisation can also be described clearly using this 
cycle. The relevant chapters in this document therefore use the four phases of this lifecycle model as 
their basis. 
During the planning phase of the security process, the framework conditions are identified and ana-
lysed, the security objectives are determined, and a security strategy is drawn up containing the basic 
statements on how the set objectives should be achieved. The security strategy is implemented with 
the help of the security concept and an appropriate security organisation structure. Security concept 
and organisation require planning, implementation, and a performance review. The performance re-
view of the superior security process involves regularly examining whether the framework conditions 
(e.g. laws, objectives of the organisation, or the environment) have changed and whether the security 
concept and organisation have proven to be effective and efficient. 
However, since different organisations have different initial conditions, security requirements, and 
financial resources, this methodology serves as a sound basis for orientation, but must be adapted to 
the specific needs by every government agency and company. Each organisation must define and 
specify individually the form of the lifecycle model that is appropriate for them. 
Small government agencies and companies should not be put off by this, since the effort required for 
the security process generally depends on the size of the organisation. In a very large company with 
many departments and individuals involved it is therefore probably necessary to implement a rather 
formal process precisely defining what internal and external audits are needed, who should report to 
whom, who should draw up decision papers, and when the management should meet to discuss the 
security process. In a small company, on the other hand, an annual meeting between the managing 
director and the IT service provider, within the framework of which they discuss the problems experi-
enced throughout the past year, the costs incurred, the latest technological developments, and other 
factors, might already be sufficient in order to critically examine the success of the security process.

--- Página 20 ---
4 
Management principles 
Page 20 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
4 Management principles 
Information security management or abbreviated IS management is the term referring to the planning 
and supervisory functions that are required to assure the meaningful development, practical feasibil-
ity, and effectiveness of a well thought-through and systematic security process as well as all the se-
curity safeguards required for this. This also includes the processes of meeting and complying with 
statutory and regulatory requirements. There are various concepts as to what an efficient IS manage-
ment may look like and which organisational structures are expedient in this regard. Regardless of the 
form an IS management system takes, there are several principles that must be considered. 
Some of the management principles presented here might sound somewhat trivial, since most manag-
ers will consider them a matter of course. Paradoxically, however, it is precisely the simple things that 
are put into practice incorrectly or omitted completely. Although discipline, patience, the ability to 
take on responsibility, and preparation of projects in a realistic and careful manner are recognised 
values in many organisations in theory, they are not always put into practice. Particularly the less 
spectacular safeguards, such as process optimisation, training and awareness-raising measures, as well 
as staff motivation, or the drawing up of comprehensible documentation, are the ones that improve the 
level of security in practice quite substantially. Complex and therefore expensive safeguards, large-
scale projects, and investments in technology are frequently very wrongly portrayed as being more 
effective and frequently are responsible for the poor reputation of security safeguards as a cost driver. 
In the following, we shall therefore present management principles which, when observed, form a 
good basis for successful information security management. 
4.1 The tasks and duties of management 
The tasks and duties of the management level with regard to information security can be summarised 
in the following items: 
1. 
Assumption of overall responsibility for information security 
The topmost management level of every government agency and company is responsible for the or-
ganisation working in a targeted and proper manner and is therefore also responsible for assuring in-
formation security both on the inside and out. Depending on the country and type of organisation, this 
can also be governed by various laws. The management level, but also every individual manager, must 
clearly demonstrate their commitment to their responsibility and must explain the importance of in-
formation security to all employees. 
2. 
Initiating, managing, and supervising information security 
The topmost management level must initiate, manage and supervise the security process. This, for 
example, involves the following tasks: 
• 
A strategy for information security and security objectives must be agreed upon and commu-
nicated. The security strategy is based on the business objectives of the company or the role 
of the government agency.  
• 
The impact of security risks on the business operation or on the fulfilment of tasks must be 
investigated. The management level is the instance making the decisions on how to handle 
risks. The responsibility for information security remains there. However, the operative task 
“information security” is typically delegated to an information security officer (ISO). 
• 
The organisational framework conditions for information security must be created, responsi-
bilities and authorisations must be assigned and communicated. 
• 
Sufficient resources must be made available for information security. The security strategy 
must comply with the resources that are available. 
• 
The security strategy must be reviewed and assessed at regular intervals, e.g. the achievement 
of the objectives can be monitored with the help of key figures. Identified vulnerabilities and

--- Página 21 ---
4 
Management principles 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 21 
errors must be corrected. For this, an “innovative” working atmosphere must be created and 
the will for constant improvement must be demonstrated within the organisation. 
• 
Employees must be motivated regarding security issues and must consider information securi-
ty an important aspect of their tasks. For this, appropriate training and awareness-raising 
measures must be offered, among other things. 
3. 
Integration of information security 
Information security is a cross-sectional function and must therefore be integrated in all processes and 
projects of the organisation processing information. Examples of this include: 
• 
project management: already in the planning phase of a project, the protection requirements 
of the information to be processed in the future as a result must be assessed and, building 
thereon, suitable security safeguards must be planned. 
• 
incident management: in the event of failures of the IT operations having effects on the in-
formation security, the approach must be coordinated with the security management. The se-
curity incident management and failure management of the IT and the facility management 
departments must be interconnected. 
If such management processes do not exist, it is possible to establish and operate an ISMS, but it will 
not work efficiently. If ISMS and project management are not interconnected, the protection require-
ments of new or changed business processes may only be determined by cyclic samples (annually, 
quarterly). As a consequence, it is significantly more difficult to obtain a complete and up-to-date de-
termination of protection requirements of all the target objects. If no fault management is present, se-
curity incidents will not be detected and/or not reported to the correct body. The degree of maturity of 
information security therefore also depends on the degree of maturity of the other management pro-
cesses of the organisation and is not an independent variable. 
4. 
Setting objectives that can be achieved 
Projects frequently fail because the objectives that have been set are unrealistic or too ambitious. This 
is no different in the field of information security. In order to achieve the reasonable security objec-
tive, many small steps and a long-term, continuous process of improvement without high investment 
costs may, in the beginning, be more efficient than a large-scale project. This way, it may be expedi-
ent to initially implement the necessary level of security within selected areas only, and, for instance, 
using the basic safeguards from IT-Grundschutz regarding the width or the core safeguards IT-
Grundschutz regarding the depth there. However, using these nuclei as starting points, the security in 
the organisation must then be increased quickly to the level aimed at. 
5. 
Pondering security costs against benefits 
One of the most difficult tasks is to ponder the costs for information security against the benefits and 
risks. It is very important to initially invest in safeguards that are particularly effective or provide pro-
tection against especially high risks. Experience shows that the most effective safeguards are not al-
ways the most expensive ones. It is therefore absolutely necessary to understand the dependence of 
the business processes and tasks on information processing so that appropriate safeguards can be se-
lected. 
At this point, it should be emphasised that information security is only ever achieved by interaction 
between technical and organisational safeguards. The investments in technology can be read off the 
budget directly. In order to justify these costs, the security products must be deployed in such a man-
ner that they are of maximum benefit. The products must therefore have been selected for the purpose 
that they should serve and must be operated in the appropriate manner, i.e. they must be integrated in 
the holistic security concept and employees must be trained in how to use them. Technical solutions 
can frequently be replaced by organisational security safeguards. However, experience has shown that 
it is more difficult to ensure that organisational safeguards are implemented consistently. Further-
more, doing so requires more personnel and thus also places a burden on the resources.

--- Página 22 ---
4 
Management principles 
Page 22 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
6. 
Role model function 
The management level must assume a role model function also when it comes to information security. 
Among other things, this includes that the management level takes into account all specified security 
rules, participates in training measures, and supports other managers regarding the execution of their 
role model function. 
4.2 Communication and knowledge 
Communication is an important cornerstone regarding the achievement of the set security objectives 
in all phases of the security process. Misunderstandings and lack of knowledge are the most common 
causes for security issues. A smooth flow of information regarding security incidents and security 
safeguards must therefore be assured on all levels and in all departments of an organisation. This in-
volves the following items: 
• 
Reports to the management level 
The management must ensure it is kept up-to-date about problems, the results of reviews and au-
dits, but also the latest developments, altered framework conditions, or opportunities for im-
provement at regular intervals so that it can fulfil its management function. In order for the man-
agement level to be able to make the right decisions regarding the control and management of the 
information security process, they need basic information relating to the information security sta-
tus. This basic information should be prepared in management reports and reported regularly by 
the ISB to the management level in an appropriate form. The management level acknowledges the 
management reports and possibly prompts required safeguards. 
• 
Flow of information 
Inadequate communication and a lack of information may lead to security issues, but also to in-
correct decisions or unnecessary working steps. This must be avoided by personnel safeguards 
and organisational regulations. Employees must be informed about the purpose of security safe-
guards, particularly if these safeguards cause additional work or result in reduced convenience. 
Furthermore, employees should be informed on the legal issues of information security related to 
their work, as well as on data privacy. Moreover, employees should be involved in the implemen-
tation planning of safeguards so that their ideas are also considered and they are given the oppor-
tunity to assess the practical feasibility of these safeguards. 
• 
Classification of information 
In order to be able to appropriately protect information, their importance for the organisation must 
be clear. In order to easier exchange information on the value of certain types of information 
within an organisation, but also with other organisations, a classification scheme is necessary de-
scribing the available stages of importance and how the different stages are delimited against each 
other. 
• 
Documentation 
To ensure the continuity and consistency of the entire security process, it is absolutely necessary 
to document the process. This is the only manner of ensuring that the various process steps and 
decisions remain comprehensible. Furthermore, meaningful documentation ensures that similar 
tasks are performed in the same manner, i.e. processes therefore become measurable and repeata-
ble. Documentation also aids in recognising fundamental vulnerabilities in the process and in 
avoiding the repetition of errors. The documentation necessary for the various security activities 
fulfils different functions and is intended for different target groups. The following documenta-
tion types can be differentiated: 
1. Technical documentation and documentation for work processes (target group: experts) 
During failures or security incidents it must be possible to restore the desired target status 
of the business processes and the related IT. Technical details and workflows must there-

--- Página 23 ---
4 
Management principles 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 23 
fore be documented in such a way that this can be achieved within a reasonable amount of 
time. 
Examples of this are instructions for installing IT applications, for performing data back-
ups, for restoring data backups, for configuring the PBX, for restarting an application 
server after a power failure, as well as the documentation for testing and approval proce-
dures and instructions on what to do when failures and security incidents occur. 
Work procedures, organisational stipulations, and technical security safeguards must be 
documented such that security incidents caused by a lack of knowledge or mistakes can 
be avoided. Examples of this include security policies for the use of email and the Inter-
net, information on how to prevent infection by viruses or on how to recognise social en-
gineering, as well as rules of conduct for employees if they suspect a security incident has 
occurred.  
2. Management reports (target group: management level, security management)  
All the information the management requires in order to be able to fulfil its management 
and supervisory duties must be recorded with the required level of detail (e.g. results of 
audits, measurements of effectiveness, reports on security incidents). 
3. Records of management decisions (target group: management level) 
The management level must record and justify the selected security strategy. Furthermore, 
decisions affecting aspects relevant to security that are taken on all the other levels must 
also be recorded to ensure they can be comprehended and repeated at any time. 
Therefore, in the following chapters, every action that must be suitably documented or recorded is 
indicated with “[DOC]”. 
• 
Formal requirements for documentation: 
Documentation does not necessarily have to be available in paper form. The documentation medi-
um should be selected as required. For example, the use of a software tool might be helpful for 
business continuity management that can be used to previously capture all business continuity 
safeguards and contacts and in a mobile manner in the event of a crisis. This tool, all necessary in-
formation, and the required IT systems must be available in cases of emergency, e.g. on a laptop. 
Depending on the emergency, it may make more sense to have all information at hand in a practi-
cal printed manual. 
There may be statutory or contractual requirements regarding the documentation that must be ob-
served, e.g. storage periods and levels of detail. Documentations only fulfil their purpose if they 
are drawn up and updated at regular intervals. Furthermore, the documentation must be identified 
and stored in such a way that it can be used when necessary. It must be clearly visible who drew 
up which parts of the documentation and when these parts were drawn up. If references are made 
to other documents, the relevant sources must be described. Additional documents must also be 
available if required, furthermore. 
Security-relevant documentation may contain information requiring protection and must therefore 
be suitably protected. Along with the protection requirements, the type and the duration of storage 
and options for the destruction of information must be defined. The process descriptions must de-
scribe whether and how the documentation must be evaluated, who must edit the documentation 
at which intervals, and who will have access rights to it. 
• 
Utilising available sources of information and experiences 
Information security is a complex issue, so the persons responsible for it must familiarise them-
selves with it very carefully. There are many sources of information available that can be used in 
this regard. These include, among other things, existing standards, Internet publications, and other 
publications. Furthermore, the cooperation with associations, partners, committees, and other 
companies or government agencies as well as CERTs (Computer Emergency Response Teams)

--- Página 24 ---
4 
Management principles 
Page 24 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
should be used for exchanging experiences about successful security activities. Since the subject 
of information security is very broad, it is important to identify and document the sources of in-
formation and cooperation partners that are appropriate for the respective organisation and the 
framework conditions. 
4.3 Performance review within the security process 
The management level must regularly check the performance and assess the security process (man-
agement assessment). If required (e.g. if a number of security incidents occur or there are significant 
changes to the framework conditions), corresponding audits and assessments must be performed be-
tween the regular dates. All results and decisions must be documented in a comprehensible manner 
[DOC]. 
The following questions, among other things, should be addressed during the discussion: 
• 
Have framework conditions changed resulting in the need to change the approach regarding 
information security? 
• 
Are the security objectives still appropriate? 
• 
Is the information security policy still up-to-date? 
In this, the focus of the performance review regarding the security process is not on auditing individu-
al security safeguards or organisational regulations, but on assessing the situation as a whole. For ex-
ample, the secure operation of an Internet portal might turn out to be too expensive for a small com-
pany. The management level could then, as an alternative, charge a service provider with the admin-
istration of the portal. 
In this situation, it is useful to examine how the security concept and the security organisation have 
performed to date. In chapter 8 Security concept, various activities are described for reviewing the 
performance of individual security safeguards. The results gathered there should be taken into account 
when reviewing the performance of the security strategy. If, for example, it turns out that the security 
safeguards are ineffective or decidedly expensive, this might give reason to reconsider and adapt the 
entire security strategy. The following questions should be addressed: 
• 
Is the security strategy still appropriate? 
• 
Is the security concept appropriate for achieving the set objectives? Are, for instance, the le-
gal requirements fulfilled? 
• 
Is the security organisation appropriate for achieving the objectives? Should its position with-
in in the organisation be strengthened or should it be integrated more in the internal process-
es? 
• 
Is there an appropriate relation between the effort – i.e. costs, personnel, materials – required 
to achieve the security objectives and the business objectives and the role of the organisation? 
4.4 Continuous improvement of the security process 
The results of the performance review must be used consistently to make appropriate corrections. This 
might mean that the security objectives, the security strategy, or the security concept must be changed 
and the security organisation must be adapted to the requirements. It may make sense to subject the 
business processes and the IT environment to fundamental changes or to discontinue or outsource 
business processes if, for instance, their secure operation cannot be guaranteed using the available 
resources. If major changes are required and more comprehensive improvements must be implement-
ed, this will result in a return to the planning phase, thus completing the management cycle.

--- Página 25 ---
5 
Resources for information security 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 25 
5 Resources for information security 
Maintaining a particular level of security always requires financial, personnel, and time-related re-
sources that must be made available in sufficient quantities by the management level. If set objectives 
cannot be achieved due to a lack of resources, it is not the fault of the persons responsible for the im-
plementation, but rather the fault of the superiors who have set unrealistic objectives or have not pro-
vided the necessary resources. In order to fulfil the set objectives, it is important that an initial cost-
benefit estimation is performed already when the objectives are defined. In the course of the security 
process, this aspect should continue to play a decisive role so that, on the one hand, resources are not 
wasted, and, on the other, the investments necessary for achieving an appropriate level of security are 
guaranteed. 
Frequently, only technical solutions are associated with IT security. However, this is too short-
sighted. This is another reason for better using the term information security instead of IT security. 
First and foremost, it is important to emphasise that investing in human resources is often more effec-
tive than investing in security technology. Technology alone does not solve any problems; it must al-
ways be integrated in the organisational framework conditions. The examination of the effectiveness 
and appropriateness of security safeguards must also be ensured by providing sufficient resources. 
In practice, the internal security experts frequently do not have enough time to analyse all the influ-
encing factors and framework conditions that are relevant to security (e.g. statutory requirements or 
technical questions). To some extent, they lack the relevant basic principles. It always makes sense to 
consult external experts if questions and issues cannot be clarified or solved using one’s own means. 
This must be documented by the internal security experts so that the management level provides the 
necessary resources. 
A prerequisite for secure IT operations is a company that functions well. Sufficient resources must 
therefore be made available for operations. Typical problems encountered during IT operations 
(scarce resources, overburdened administrators, or an unstructured and poorly maintained IT envi-
ronment) must generally be solved so that the actual security safeguards can be implemented effec-
tively and efficiently.

--- Página 26 ---
6 
Involving employees in the security process 
Page 26 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
6 Involving employees in the security process 
Information security affects all employees without any exceptions. By acting responsibly and with 
quality awareness, every individual can avoid damages and contribute to success. Raising the aware-
ness for information security and providing appropriate training measures for employees as well as for 
all managers therefore are fundamental prerequisites for information security. In order to be able to 
implement security safeguards as planned, employees must have the necessary basic skills to do so. In 
addition to knowledge about how security mechanisms must be operated, this also involves 
knowledge of the purpose of security safeguards. The working atmosphere, common moral values, 
and the commitment of employees are all factors decisively influencing information security. 
If new employees are employed or existing ones are given new tasks they must be provided with thor-
ough training so they adjust to the new situation. This must also involve teaching them about the secu-
rity-related aspects of the respective job. If employees leave the organisation or their responsibilities 
change, this process must be accompanied by appropriate security safeguards (e.g. withdrawal of au-
thorisation, returning keys and identity cards). 
Employees must be obliged to comply with all laws, regulations, and ordinances relevant in the re-
spective environment. For this, they must, of course, be familiarised with the existing information se-
curity regulations and simultaneously they must be motivated to comply with these. Moreover, the 
employees should know that every identified (or suspected) security incident must be reported to se-
curity management and how and to whom the report has to be performed.

--- Página 27 ---
7 
The security process 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 27 
7 The security process 
The management level must define the security objectives knowing all of the relevant framework 
conditions, the environmental analysis, and based on the business objectives of the company or the 
role of the government agency and must create the prerequisites for their implementation. The ap-
proach is planned with a security strategy to establish a continuous security process. The strategy is 
implemented with the help of a security concept and a security organisation. In the following, we shall 
therefore describe the relevant management activities for each lifecycle phase. Due to the broad range 
and the better overview, the activities relevant to the security concept will be described in a separate 
chapter. 
7.1 Planning of the security process 
Determining the framework conditions 
The creation of information security is not an end in itself, but information security contributes to the 
objectives of an organisation being achieved and being able to reliably execute business processes and 
tasks. For this, it is required that the organisation identifies and analyses all framework conditions, 
defines the security objectives, and draws up a security strategy containing basic statements on how 
the set objectives should be achieved. Identifying the framework conditions also includes the analysis 
of the environment, within the framework of which both internal and external parties, as well as their 
security requirements, their requirements regarding the ISMS, and their statutory and regulatory re-
quirements are taken into account.  
Determining framework conditions is an essential basis for the further considerations regarding in-
formation security, since it can be identified where important background information is missing in 
order to be able to properly assess the importance of information security for the organisation. Fur-
thermore, a first self-assessment is allowed for thereby, since it becomes clear already when compil-
ing the background information where there are potential conflicts and where actions need to be tak-
en.  
Formulating security objectives and an information security policy [DOC] 
The information security objectives should be determined carefully at the beginning of each security 
process. Otherwise, there is a risk that the security strategies and concepts drawn out will not match 
the actual requirements of the organisation. 
Thus, the basic objectives of the organisation and the general framework conditions should be used to 
initially derive general security objectives and make strategic specifications as to how these security 
objectives should be achieved. The following subjects should at least be considered when developing 
the security strategy: 
• 
objectives of the company or roles of the government agency 
• 
legal requirements and regulations such as regarding data privacy, 
• 
customer requirements and existing contracts, 
• 
internal framework conditions (e.g. pan-organisation risk management), analysis of the envi-
ronment, 
• 
(IT-assisted) business processes and specialised tasks, and 
• 
global basic threats to the business activities through security risks (e.g. damage to the image, 
violations of laws, infringement of contractual obligations, and theft of research results).

--- Página 28 ---
7 
The security process 
Page 28 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
The central points of the security strategy are documented in the information security policy. The in-
formation security policy should at least contain statements on the following issues: 
• 
importance of information security and the essential information, business processes, and IT 
for the fulfilment of the tasks, 
• 
reference of the information security objectives to the business objectives or tasks of the or-
ganisation, 
• 
security objectives and the key elements of the security strategy for the business processes 
and the IT used, 
• 
assurance that the security policy is implemented by the management of the organisation, as 
well as key statements on the performance review, and 
• 
description of the organisational structure established for implementing the information secu-
rity process. 
In addition, the following statements may be added: 
• 
For motivational reasons, some threats that are important to the business processes may be 
sketched and the most important statutory regulations and other important framework condi-
tions (such as contractual agreements) may be stated. 
• 
The essential tasks and responsibilities within the security process should be illustrated (par-
ticularly for the IS management team, the ISO, the employees, and the IT operations, more de-
tailed information on the individual roles can be found in chapter 4 Organisation of the secu-
rity process of BSI standard 200-2 IT-Grundschutz methodology. Furthermore, the organisa-
tional units or roles should be identified that act as contact persons for security questions. 
• 
Programmes to promote information security via training and awareness-raising measures 
may be announced. 
Determination of the appropriate level of safety of the business processes  
In order to better understand the information security objectives, the desired level of security can be 
described for individual business processes or organisational areas of particular interest with refer-
ence to the basic values of information security (confidentiality, integrity, availability). This is helpful 
for formulating the detailed security concept at a later point in time. 
Definition of the scope [DOC] 
The scope within which the ISMS should be responsible must be defined initially. The scope fre-
quently includes the entire organisation, but can also, for example, refer to one or more specialised 
tasks or business processes or one or more organisational units. In this, it is important that the consid-
ered specialised tasks and business processes are completely contained within the selected scope and 
are concluded regarding the content, i.e. no essential parts of any of the business processes are not 
covered by the scope. Within the context of IT-Grundschutz, the term “information network” is used 
for the scope. The information network also includes all the infrastructural, organisational, personnel, 
and technical components that serve to fulfil the tasks in this area of application of information pro-
cessing. 
While the scope frequently comprises the entire organisation regarding the basic and standard safe-
guards, for the core safeguards the focus is on a few extraordinary, particularly business-critical assets 
(so-called crown jewels). 
7.2 Establishing a security organisation [DOC] 
Planning and executing a security process includes defining organisational structures (e.g. depart-
ments, groups, centres of expertise) as well as roles and duties. There are different options for organ-
ising the structure of information security management. In this, staff arrangements depend on the size 
of the respective organisation, the existing resources, and the desired level of security. The process of

--- Página 29 ---
7 
The security process 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 29 
scheduling the resources for supporting information security must be performed such that the agreed 
level of security can actually be achieved. 
When defining roles within the framework of information management, the following basic rules must 
be observed: 
1. The overall responsibility for information security remains with the management level. 
2. At least one person has to be appointed who promotes and coordinates the information security 
process, typically as information security officer (ISO). 
3. Every employee is equally responsible for their original task and for maintaining information se-
curity at his/her workplace and in his/her environment. 
In order to secure direct access to the organisation’s management, the role of the ISO should be organ-
ised as an executive department. At management level, the information security role should be clearly 
assigned to one responsible manager whom the ISO directly reports to. 
7.3 Implementation of the information security policy 
A security concept must be drawn up in order to achieve the set security objectives. For greater clari-
ty, a separate chapter has been provided to explain how a security concept can be planned and imple-
mented and how the level of information security can be maintained and improved. The results of the 
check of the security safeguards are then integrated in the performance review of the security process 
and are assessed by the management level. 
7.4 Maintaining information security 
Establishing information security is not a project with a limited time span, but a continuous process. 
The appropriateness and effectiveness of all elements of the information security management system 
must be checked at regular intervals. This means that not only individual security safeguards must be 
checked, but also that the security strategy must be reviewed on a regular basis. 
The implementation of the security safeguards should be evaluated at regular intervals by means of 
internal audits. These also serve the purpose of collecting and evaluating the experiences made in day-
to-day practice. In addition to audits, it is also necessary to perform drills and awareness-raising 
measures, since this is the only manner of determining whether all the specified procedures and the 
conduct in cases of emergency will actually have the desired effect. Findings regarding vulnerabilities 
and opportunities for improvements must lead to consequences within the security organisation with-
out any exception. Moreover, it is important that future developments both regarding the technology 
used and the business processes and organisational structures are perceived at an early stage so that 
potential threats can be identified in time, provisions can be made and security safeguards can be im-
plemented. If significant changes in business processes or organisational structures are looming, the 
information security management must become involved here. The ISO must become active in a pro-
active manner: Even if the involvement of the information security management is already planned for 
in the organisation’s regulations, it should not wait to become involved as planned, but should be-
come involved in the relevant processes of its own accord in good time. 
It is important that none of the audits are carried out by those individuals who were involved in the 
planning and design of the security objectives, because it is difficult to find one’s own mistakes. De-
pending on the size of the organisation it might be useful to consult external auditors to avoid the sit-
uation in which employees become blinkered to their own work. 
The maintenance of information security is also an important point for small and medium-sized organ-
isations. Although the audits will be less extensive than in large organisations, they must not be omit-
ted in any case. Within the context of the annual management assessment, the topmost management 
level must also check whether there are new legal stipulations that must be taken into consideration or 
whether other framework conditions have changed.

--- Página 30 ---
7 
The security process 
Page 30 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
7.5 Continuous improvement of information security 
Ultimately, the review of the security process is intended to improve the process. The results should 
therefore be used to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the selected security strategy and, if 
necessary, to adapt it. The security strategy must also be reviewed in the case of changes to the securi-
ty objectives or framework conditions.

--- Página 31 ---
8 
Security concept 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 31 
8 
Security concept 
8.1 Creating a security concept 
To fulfil the information security objectives and achieve the desired level of security, an understand-
ing regarding how the fulfilment of tasks and business processes depends on the confidentiality, integ-
rity, and availability of information must initially be developed. For this, it must also be considered 
which damage causes such as force majeure, organisational shortcomings, human error, or also cyber 
risks threaten the business processes. Afterwards the decision must be made on how to deal with these 
risks. The following partial stages are required in detail: 
Selecting a method for risk analysis [DOC] 
The risks that may be caused through damages for the business activity and tasks of an organisation 
by security incidents must be analysed. Thus, a method for risk analysis is an integral part of every 
information security management system. In order to be able to determine a risk, the basic threats 
must be determined, the damage potential and probability of occurrence must be assessed and com-
pared to the risk acceptance of the organisation. Various risk analysis methods come into question 
depending on the use case, the organisational framework conditions, the type of industry, and the lev-
el of security that is aspired to. The information security management must select a method that is 
appropriate for the type and size of the organisation. The selected method has a decisive influence on 
the amount of work associated with the process of drawing up the security concept. 
Various types of risk assessment are described in the ISO/IEC 31010 and ISO/IEC 27005 standards. 
The BSI developed a two-stage method derived thereof. When the methodology according to IT-
Grundschutz is used, a risk assessment is performed implicitly for areas with normal protection re-
quirements when drawing up the IT-Grundschutz modules. Only those threats which, after careful 
analysis, are shown to have such a high probability of occurrence or such drastic consequences that 
security safeguards must be implemented are considered in so doing. Typical threats that everyone 
must protect themselves against include, for example, damage due to fire, water, burglary, malware, 
or hardware defects. This approach has the advantage that IT-Grundschutz users do not have to carry 
out an individual basic threat and vulnerability analysis for a major part of the information system, 
since this analysis has already been performed in advance by the BSI. In certain cases, however, an 
explicit risk analysis must be carried out, for example if the information system considered includes 
target objects which 
• 
have high or very high protection requirements in at least one of the three basic values – con-
fidentiality, integrity or availability or 
• 
could not be adequately mapped (modelled) with the existing IT-Grundschutz modules or  
• 
are used in operating scenarios (environment, application) that are not planned in the scope of 
IT-Grundschutz. 
As a consequence, the above-described methodology will be complemented by the approach described 
in the BSI standard 200-3 Risk analysis on the basis of IT-Grundschutz (see [BSI3]), in the event of 
normal protection requirements.  
The application of IT-Grundschutz bears the advantage that one’s own amount of work is reduced 
significantly, since IT-Grundschutz already describes a specific methodology and suggests suitable 
security requirements as well as security safeguards.

--- Página 32 ---
8 
Security concept 
Page 32 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Figure 6: Overview of the lifecycle of a security concept 
Classifying risks and damages [DOC] 
Depending on the selected method for risk analysis, the information security management must define 
how basic threats, potentials for causing damage, probabilities of occurrence, and the risks resulting 
thereof should be classified and assessed. However, it is difficult, complex, and moreover prone to 
error to determine individual values for damages and probabilities of occurrence. It is not advisable to 
invest too much time in the process of precisely determining probabilities of occurrence and possible 
damages. In most cases, it is more practical to work with qualitative categories both for the probabil-
ity of occurrence and for the potential extent of damages. Per dimension, a maximum of five catego-
ries should be selected, e.g. 
• 
Probability of occurrence: rarely, medium, frequently, very frequently 
• 
Potential extent of damage: Negligible, Limited, Considerable, Threatening the existence of 
the organisation 
Once these kinds of categories have been suitably defined in the organisation, they can be used as a 
basis for qualitative risk examination. 
Risk analysis [DOC] 
Every risk analysis must comprise the following steps: 
• 
The information and business processes that are to be protected must be identified. 
• 
All the relevant basic threats pertaining to the information and business processes to be pro-
tected must be identified. 
• 
Vulnerabilities which the basic threats can use to take effect must be identified.

--- Página 33 ---
8 
Security concept 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 33 
• 
The possible damages due to a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability must be identi-
fied and assessed. 
• 
The assumable repercussions on the business activities or fulfilment of tasks through security 
incidents must be analysed. 
• 
The risk of suffering damages due to security incidents must be assessed. 
The terms “basic threat”, “vulnerability” and “risk” are defined in the glossary. 
Developing a strategy for dealing with risks [DOC] 
The topmost management level must specify how the identified risks should be dealt with. Depending 
on the risk appetite of an organisation, different risk acceptance criteria are possible in each case. Risk 
appetite refers to an organisation’s tendency regarding the assessment and dealing with risks, with this 
tendency resulting from cultural, internal, external, or economic influences. The risks identified must 
be processed accordingly by the information security management. The following options are availa-
ble for this: risks can 
• 
be avoided, for example, by excluding the cause of the risk, 
• 
be reduced by modifying the framework conditions which contributed to the classification of 
risks, 
• 
be transferred by sharing the risks with other parties, e.g. by outsourcing or through insuranc-
es, 
• 
be accepted (based on a comprehensible state of facts), for example, because the opportunities 
related to the risk are to be seized. 
The manner in which risks should be dealt with must be documented, assigned to a risk owner, and 
approved by the topmost management level. The resources necessary for implementing the strategy 
must be planned and made available. 
When developing the strategy, the residual risk is an important decision criterion, in addition to the 
costs, that must be considered by the management level.  
In practice, the risk assessment and risk handling steps are performed until the risk acceptance criteria 
of the organisation have been fulfilled and the remaining risk (“residual risk”) is thus in accordance 
with the organisation’s objectives and specifications. The residual risk must then be submitted to the 
management level for approval (“risk acceptance”). This documents in a traceable manner that the 
organisation is aware of the residual risk. 
Within the framework of the risk assessment, mostly risks result exceeding the risk acceptance limit 
(see BSI standard 200-3) and therefore requiring handling. In the following, the risk handling option 
Reduction through the implementation of security safeguards is considered.  
Selecting security safeguards [DOC] 
Specific security safeguards can be derived from the general security objectives and security require-
ments specified by the management level. When selecting security safeguards, the cost-benefit aspects 
and practical feasibility must also be considered besides the effects on the level of security. 
Besides technical security safeguards, organisational procedures and processes (such as user guide-
lines, the granting of rights, security training measures, as well as testing and approval procedures) 
must also be established. When doing so, the following issues, among other things, must be ad-
dressed: 
• 
organisation (including specifying responsibilities, assigning duties and separating functions, 
regulating how information is handled, applications and IT components, hardware and soft-
ware management, change management, etc.), 
• 
personnel (e.g. briefing of new employees, making stand-in arrangements, etc.),

--- Página 34 ---
8 
Security concept 
Page 34 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
• 
training and awareness-raising for information security, 
• 
identity and authorisation management, 
• 
data backup (for all information, applications, and IT components), 
• 
compliance and data privacy, 
• 
protection against malware, 
• 
protection of information during processing, transmission, and storage (e.g. through the use of 
cryptography), 
• 
hardware and software development, 
• 
detection of security incidents 
• 
conduct during security incidents (incident handling), 
• 
security audits (audits and revisions, penetration tests, etc.) 
• 
contingency planning and maintenance of business activities in an emergency (business con-
tinuity), 
• 
deleting and destroying of data, and  
• 
outsourcing and cloud computing. 
Comprehensible documentation must be provided explaining why the selected safeguards are appro-
priate for achieving the security objectives and requirements. 
8.2 Implementation of the security concept 
Once the security safeguards have been selected they must be implemented according to an implemen-
tation plan. The following steps should be followed during implementation: 
Development of an implementation plan for the security concept [DOC] 
An implementation plan must include the following subjects: 
• 
specification of priorities (implementation sequence), 
• 
specification of responsibilities for initiation, 
• 
provision of resources by the management, and 
• 
implementation planning of individual safeguards (definition of dates and costs, definition of 
persons in charge of implementation, as well as persons in charge of supervising the imple-
mentation and the efficiency of safeguards). 
Implementation of the security safeguards 
The planned security safeguards must be implemented in accordance with the implementation plan. In 
this, information security must be integrated in the pan-organisation procedures and processes. If dif-
ficulties arise during implementation, they should be communicated immediately so that solutions can 
be devised to overcome them. Typical solutions include, for example, modifying the lines of commu-
nication or the allocation of rights or adapting technical procedures. 
Supervising and checking the implementation [DOC] 
Regular checks must be performed to ensure that the set objectives are complied with. If objectives 
cannot be complied with, the member of the management level responsible for information security 
must be informed so that problems can be responded to in due time.

--- Página 35 ---
8 
Security concept 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 35 
8.3 Performance review of the security concept 
In order to maintain the level of security, the security safeguards identified as being appropriate must 
be applied on the one hand and, on the other hand, the security concept must be updated continuously. 
Furthermore, security incidents must be detected in due time and quick and appropriate reactions to 
these are required. The performance of the security concept must be reviewed at regular intervals. The 
effectiveness and efficiency of the implemented safeguards should be reviewed within the framework 
of internal audits. If the resources available are insufficient to have these kinds of audits performed by 
experienced internal employees, external experts should instead be charged with carrying out auditing 
activities. 
Since the effort and expense for audits depend on the complexity and size of the information network, 
the audit requirements for small organisations are correspondingly lower than for large and complex 
organisations and can therefore normally be implemented very well. An annual technical check of the 
IT systems, a review of the existing documentation to check for its up-to-dateness, and a workshop 
intended to discuss problems and experiences with the security concept might already be sufficient in 
small organisations. 
The following activities should be performed in detail: 
Reaction to changes during routine operation 
In the case of changes to routine operation (e.g. the introduction of new business processes, modifica-
tions to the organisation, or introduction of new IT systems), the security concept and its associated 
documents (such as a list of the spheres of responsibility or a list of the IT systems) must be updated. 
Detection of security incidents during routine operation [DOC] 
Safeguards must be implemented that allow information processing errors (which may compromise 
confidentiality, availability, or integrity), mistakes that are critical to security, and security incidents 
to be avoided as far as possible, to be limited in their impact, or at least noticed prematurely. The 
handling of errors must be documented. This includes that the implemented safeguards, the effects, 
and possibly resulting consequential safeguards are documented. In order to prematurely detect secu-
rity issues, for example, system and network monitoring tools, integrity checks, logging of access ac-
tivities, actions or errors, access controls to buildings and rooms, or fire sensors, water sensors, and 
air-conditioning sensors may be used. 
The records and logs of the detection safeguards must be evaluated regularly. 
Checking that the requirements are being complied with [DOC] 
Regular checks must be performed to see whether all the security safeguards are being applied and 
implemented as planned in the security concept. This must involve checking that the technical securi-
ty safeguards (e.g. regarding the configuration) and the organisational regulations (e.g. processes, 
procedures, and operations) are complied with. Checks should also be performed to ensure that the 
resources necessary for correct implementation of the safeguards are available and that everyone who 
has been assigned specific roles for implementing security safeguards is indeed fulfilling their obliga-
tions. 
Checking the suitability and effectiveness of security safeguards [DOC] 
Regular checks must be performed to determine whether the security safeguards are appropriate for 
achieving the security objectives that have been set. Their suitability can be assessed, for instance, by 
evaluating past security incidents, interviewing employees, or performing penetration tests. This also 
involves following the relevant developments in the environment of the business processes or the spe-
cialised tasks of the organisation. The technical or regulatory framework conditions, for instance, 
might have changed. To ensure their level of knowledge stays up to date, the persons responsible for 
security should, for example, use external sources of knowledge, visit symposia, and analyse stand-
ards and technical literature and information from the Internet. If the knowledge or time necessary in 
this regard is not available internally, external experts should be consulted.

--- Página 36 ---
8 
Security concept 
Page 36 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
In this context, it is useful to examine whether the security safeguards being used are efficient or 
whether the security objectives could be achieved with other safeguards that use resources more spar-
ingly. In so doing, it must also be checked whether processes and organisational regulations are prac-
ticable and efficient. This frequently results in an opportunity for implementing necessary organisa-
tional improvements and restructuring measures. 
Management assessments [DOC] 
The management level must be kept informed about the results of the audits at regular intervals and in 
an adequate manner by the information security management. This includes pointing out problems, 
successes, and potential improvements. 
The management reports must contain all the information regarding the management of the security 
process that is necessary for the management level. Such information includes, for example: 
• 
overview of the current status in the security process, 
• 
assessment of follow-up safeguards implemented after previous management assessments, 
• 
feedback from customers and employees, and 
• 
overview of newly occurred basic threats and security vulnerabilities. 
The management level takes note of the management reports and makes the necessary decisions, for 
example, pertaining to improvements to the security process, the demand for resources, as well as the 
results of security analyses (e.g. reduction or acceptance of risks). 
8.4 Continuous improvement of the security concept 
Regularly reviewing the performance of the security concept serves for remedying errors and vulnera-
bilities identified and for optimising security safeguards with regard to their efficiency.  
One important item involves improving the practical feasibility of technical safeguards and organisa-
tional procedures so as to increase the acceptance of the security safeguards. Likewise, the formula-
tion of suitable security safeguards should time and again be considered as to whether it is easily 
comprehensible and understandable.

--- Página 37 ---
9 
Certification of the ISMS 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 37 
9 Certification of the ISMS 
The successful design and operation of an ISMS are not an easy task. If this task has been performed 
successfully, it is practicable to document this both internally and externally and to render transparent 
the successful efforts in the field of information security. This may serve as a quality feature to both 
customers and business partners and therefore result in a competitive advantage as well. However, 
government agencies may also use this mechanism in order to improve the trust of the people in the 
security of their business processes and the related IT – particularly in the field if e-government. An-
other reason for aiming at a certification may result from compliance reasons, i.e. in order to demon-
strate that relevant laws or contractual requirements are being met. Furthermore, this frequently re-
sults in a “passive” benefit, since other organisations may use an ISMS certificate in order to obtain 
information on the security status of potential partners. 
ISO/IEC 27001 is a basic standard, on the basis of which an ISMS may be certified. It provides for a 
two-stage certification process: In this, the certificates are issued by independent certification bodies. 
The issuing of a certificate is preceded by an audit performed by a qualified auditor.  
In order to ensure that the results of the certification audits are reproducible and repeatable, experi-
enced and trained auditors are required. As a consequence, auditors must demonstrate that they have 
the necessary technical know-how and are familiar and comply with the specified scheme. All of the 
above is based on additional ISO standards in order to ensure the high quality and comprehensibility 
of certificates. 
The standard and core safeguards of IT-Grundschutz map the requirements of ISO/IEC 27001. There-
fore, it is also possible to have the successful implementation of IT-Grundschutz including the estab-
lishment of an ISMS certified by the BSI. The BSI developed a certification scheme for information 
security that takes into account the requirements regarding information security management systems 
from ISO/IEC 27001. The IT-Grundschutz compendium forms the audit catalogue for certification 
according to ISO/IEC 27001. As a consequence, it is referred to as ISO 27001 certification based on 
IT-Grundschutz. The IT-Grundschutz compendium as audit catalogue is provided at no charge by the 
BSI (as opposed to other certification bodies). 
For an ISO 27001 certificate based on IT-Grundschutz to be issued, it is necessary to have an audit 
performed by an external auditor who is certified with the BSI. The result of the audit is an audit re-
port that is presented to the certification body that will make the decision regarding the issuing of the 
ISO 27001 certificate based on IT-Grundschutz. 
Additional information on the certification according to ISO/IEC 27001 can be found on the website 
of the BSI (see [ZERT]).

--- Página 38 ---
10 
The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
Page 38 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
10 The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
10.1 
Introduction 
The descriptions of an information security management system have been kept very generic in this 
document and in the ISO standards 27000, 27001, and 27002, and only serve as a framework. In prac-
tice, therefore, a great deal of freedom exists for the practical implementation of the generic specifica-
tions. The great challenge lies in establishing an ISMS in one’s own organisation that not only helps 
to achieve the set security objectives, but is also cost-effective and economic. 
In this, the question of how a security concept should be developed for the organisation is generally 
the most difficult one to answer. The main steps for developing a security concept involve assessing 
the risk and selecting the correct security safeguards. In so doing, selecting the method of risk analysis 
is particularly important, since the selected method has a decisive influence on the amount of work 
required to develop the security concept. The IT-Grundschutz methodology describes different ap-
proaches appropriate for the majority of use cases. Depending on the level of security aimed at and 
the information to be secured, it is possible to gradually get started regarding security management. 
When compared with the classical quantitative risk analysis, the IT-Grundschutz is much more cost-
effective and has been tried and tested in practice for many years. As an added-value, the IT-
Grundschutz methodology does not only describe how an ISMS works in principle, but, together with 
the IT Grundschutz compendium, it also portrays which specific security requirements should be 
complied with in practice. Practical explanations as to how the requirements of the modules of the IT-
Grundschutz compendium may be complied with can be found in the corresponding implementation 
recommendations on the IT-Grundschutz. 
As already mentioned above, the IT-Grundschutz methodology includes different approaches regard-
ing the design of information security. The application of the basic safeguards approach offers first 
steps in the field of information security specifically for small and medium-sized organisations and 
helps designing a slender ISMS (“Bonsai ISMS”). As opposed to the standard safeguards, the fields of 
action of the basic safeguards do not form a closed cycle, but they are an initial approach that may be 
continued by using the standard safeguards. 
This chapter provides an introduction to the essential elements of the IT-Grundschutz methodology 
and highlights that an approach in accordance with IT-Grundschutz is fully compatible with the ISO 
27001 standard (see [27001]). A more detailed representation of the approaches according to IT-
Grundschutz can be found in BSI standard 200-2 IT-Grundschutz methodology (see [BSI2]). 
The IT-Grundschutz methodology describes an approach for establishing and maintaining an infor-
mation security management system based on the IT-Grundschutz Methodology and the IT-
Grundschutz compendium. The subjects mentioned here are explained therein in greater detail and in 
a more practice-related manner than in the present document. 
10.2 
The security process in accordance with IT-Grundschutz 
All common methods, best practice examples, and information security management standards barely 
differ regarding the information they provide with regard to the security process or the duties of the 
management. The greatest differences lie in the manner in which the security concept is specifically 
developed, i.e. how the risk assessment is formulated and how the security safeguards are selected. 
Therefore, the basic approach for developing a security concept in accordance with IT-Grundschutz 
will be explained here.

--- Página 39 ---
10 The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 39 
10.2.1 
Integrated risk assessment in IT-Grundschutz 
A risk analysis in the field of information security differs in important areas from classical methods of 
actuarial mathematics or controlling. The precise calculation of the extents of damage and probabili-
ties of occurrence normally performed in a “classical” or quantitative risk analysis frequently is not 
possible, since appropriate figures are not available. Even if a calculation is possible, interpreting the 
results remains very difficult. 
Example: In the case of the classical risk analysis, the risk can be calculated by multiplying the extent 
of damage with the probability of occurrence. If, for instance, the destruction of a computer centre 
due to an aeroplane crash results in damages costing 20 million Euros and occurs statistically once 
every 20,000 years, the theoretical risk is 1,000 Euros per year. The same risk results if the damage 
caused through the theft of a notebook (without any loss of data) is estimated to be 2,000 Euros and 
occurs statistically once every two years. Although the value of the risk is the same in absolute terms, 
these two damage scenarios must be dealt with completely differently in the context of risk manage-
ment. 
Therefore, the IT-Grundschutz methodology already includes a risk assessment method providing the 
necessary information required to assess security incidents that are harmful to the business and, when 
compared to the quantitative method, that is easier to handle and sufficient for all cases under consid-
eration. In IT-Grundschutz, it is assumed that, regardless of the type and orientation of an organisa-
tion, business-relevant information must be processed securely everywhere, commonly used and 
therefore comparable IT systems are being used, and comparable environmental conditions exist. As a 
consequence, there mostly are comparable basic threats. The security requirements of the business 
processes and specialised applications are specific to those processes and applications and may differ, 
in practice though, they usually lead to similar and comparable security requirements. 
For the IT-Grundschutz methodology, the BSI, in the IT-Grundschutz compendium, analyses the basic 
threats and vulnerabilities for typical fields of application and components and uses this information 
to determine the resulting threats. In so doing, only those threats are considered which, after analysis, 
are shown to have such a high probability of occurrence or such drastic consequences that security 
safeguards must be implemented. Typical threats that everyone must protect themselves against in-
clude, for example, damage due to fire, burglary, malware, or hardware defects. This approach has the 
advantage that IT-Grundschutz users do not have to perform basic threat and vulnerability analyses or 
calculate probabilities of occurrence for a major part of the information network, since the BSI has 
already done this work for them.  
Based on basic threats and the determined specific threats, the IT-Grundschutz compendium describes 
tried and tested technical, infrastructural, personnel, and organisational basic and standard require-
ments, as well as requirements in the case of high protection requirements for safeguarding typical 
objects. 
A risk analysis must be performed for information and business processes that require a high or very 
high level of protection or for application environments that are not dealt with in the IT-Grundschutz. 
A simplified risk analysis according to the IT-Grundschutz methodology is described in BSI standard 
200-3 Risk analysis based on IT-Grundschutz (see [BSI3]). 
Both the risk assessment in accordance with IT-Grundschutz and the risk analysis described in [BSI3] 
are considerably more straightforward and more cost-effective than a quantitative risk analysis. The 
risk assessment in accordance with IT-Grundschutz furthermore has the advantage that organisations 
from the most different industries that use this method have a common and clearly defined basis for 
their risk assessment. 
Classification of risks 
The general requirement for classifying risks is accomplished in IT Grundschutz in the following 
steps: 
1. Orientation on damage scenarios

--- Página 40 ---
10 
The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
Page 40 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Various damage scenarios should be examined in order to describe damages and the negative ef-
fects of security incidents as vividly as possible, for example: 
• 
violations of laws, regulations or contracts, 
• 
impairment of the right to informational self-determination, 
• 
impairment of the physical integrity of a person, 
• 
impairment of the ability to perform tasks, 
• 
negative internal or external effects, and 
• 
financial consequences. 
When simulating the scenarios, the damages that may arise due to a loss of confidentiality, integ-
rity, or availability should be investigated. 
For example, in the case of the “violation of laws” scenario, the discussion should, among other 
things, focus on the questions of which data must be handled in confidence and what the conse-
quences would be if these conditions were breached due to negligence. 
2. Classifying damages: definition of protection requirement categories 
Performing a precise calculation of potential damages is mostly not reasonable or perhaps even 
impossible and is not necessary for selecting appropriate security safeguards either. It is therefore 
advisable to divide damages into a few classes. Attempting to calculate the damage “precisely” 
may even endanger security in many cases, since an inapplicable accuracy is suggested and those 
responsible are lulled into a “false sense of security” as a consequence. 
Based on possible damages, three protection requirement categories are defined in the context of 
the IT-Grundschutz and are later used for classifying the items that are in need of protection (e.g. 
IT systems): 
“normal protection requirements”: the effects of the damage are limited and manageable. 
“high protection requirements”: 
the effects of the damage may be considerable. 
“very high protection requirements”: the effects of the damage may reach a catastrophic level that 
threatens the existence of the organisation. 
Every organisation must define individually for every damage scenario how “normal”, “high” and 
“very high” should be interpreted, i.e. which framework conditions should be applied for making 
the classification in the protection requirement categories. Since this has a direct effect on how 
risks are dealt with as well as on the demand for resources, this must be specified by the topmost 
management level of the organisation. The specification of protection requirement categories can 
vary greatly depending on the type and size of the organisation and only the topmost management 
level may define them specifically in cooperation with the security management. The BSI can 
therefore only provide examples for corresponding values that need to be adapted to suit the par-
ticular conditions. 
Organisations may also use different protection requirement categories. In order to continue work-
ing with IT-Grundschutz in this case, it must be considered how the individual protection re-
quirement categories can be mapped to those of the IT-Grundschutz. This may also lead to re-
quirements from the IT-Grundschutz modules falling into different categories. 
Example for the classification of financial damages: 
normal protection requirements exist when financial damages are considered tolerable for an 
organisation. For a small company, this may, for instance, mean that no damages exceeding 
10,000 Euros must be allowed to occur due to security incidents. Higher protection require-
ments exist if damages would result in considerable financial losses, but would not threaten 
the mere existence of the company. In a small company, this may refer to a sum between

--- Página 41 ---
10 The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 41 
10,000 Euros and 100,000 Euros. Very high protection requirements exist when financial 
damages threaten the mere existence of the organisation. In a small company, this could be 
the case with a damage potential of over 100,000 Euros already. Other values would of course 
result for a large commercial bank. 
10.2.2 
Security concept 
In addition to the standard safeguards, the IT-Grundschutz also offers two additional approaches for 
getting started with information security (basic and core safeguards). The IT-Grundschutz methodolo-
gies provide assistance in setting up and operating, as well as maintaining and improving the infor-
mation security process in an organisation by revealing paths and methods for the general course of 
action, but also for solving special problems. The following steps must be performed in order to draw 
up a security concept according to IT-Grundschutz: 
• 
Definition of the information network: specification of the scope 
At the beginning, the scope the security concept is to be drawn up and implemented for must be 
defined. For example, this may include certain organisational units of an organisation. However, 
this may also include areas processing defined business processes or specialised tasks, including 
the required infrastructure. In IT-Grundschutz, the scope for the security concept is also referred 
to as “information network”. The parts of the information network under consideration are the 
components to be protected using the appropriate modules of the IT-Grundschutz compendium. 
• 
Structure analysis: identification of items to be protected 
Within the framework of the structure analysis, the relevant items to be protected, such as infor-
mation, applications, IT systems, ICS systems, or IoT systems, networks, rooms, and buildings, 
but also responsible employees, must be determined for the information network under considera-
tion, i.e. the scope or business process. 
During the structure analysis, the relationships and dependencies between the individual items to 
be protected must also be described. Documenting these dependencies mainly serves for identify-
ing the effects of security incidents on the business activity so that an appropriate response can be 
provided. 
Example: if “server XY” is affected by a security incident, it is necessary to quickly find out 
which applications or business processes have been affected by this. 
• 
Protection requirements determination: analysing the effects of security incidents on the business 
processes under consideration 
The degree of protection required is determined for each of the values determined during the 
structure analysis. 
Example: if the failure of an IT system may result in a great deal of damage, the determined value 
is high, since the IT system is characterised by correspondingly high protection requirements. 
The protection requirements of the business processes must first be determined. Building thereon, 
the protection requirements of the applications identified within the framework of the structure 
analysis can be determined. In so doing, it must be considered what type of information is being 
processed using these applications. In the vast majority of organisations, it is sufficient at this 
point to consider only very few information groups. Examples in this regard include customer da-
ta, publicly accessible information (e.g. address, opening hours), or strategic data for the man-
agement. Subsequently, it must be examined what information is processed where and using 
which IT systems.  
The protection requirements of the applications are transferred to the IT systems supporting the 
respective applications. The protection requirements of the rooms are derived from the protection 
requirements of the applications and IT systems operated therein.

--- Página 42 ---
10 
The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
Page 42 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Example: The business process involving the management of customer data is essential for main-
taining business operations. This business process is executed on “server XY” consequently being 
characterised by high protection requirements. The room the server is located in therefore also has 
at least high protection requirements. 
• 
Modelling: selection of the security requirements 
The modules of the IT-Grundschutz compendium describe specific threats and basic and standard 
requirements and requirements in the case of high protection requirements for typical tasks in in-
formation security management and fields of IT deployment. In this, organisational, personnel, in-
frastructural, and technical aspects of information security are considered in each case. 
The IT-Grundschutz compendium includes process modules from the following areas and layers: 
• 
ISMS: information security management, 
• 
ORP: organisation and personnel, 
• 
CON: concepts and approaches (e.g. crypto concept, software development), 
• 
OPS: operations (e.g. protection against malware, cloud computing), and 
• 
DER: detection and reaction (incident management, business continuity management). 
Furthermore, the IT-Grundschutz compendium includes system modules on 
• 
INF: infrastructure (e.g. buildings, computer centre), 
• 
SYS: IT systems (e.g. servers, clients), 
• 
NET: networks and communication (e.g. network architecture and design),  
• 
APP: applications (e.g. email and browser), and 
• 
IND: industrial IT (e.g. operational and control technology and control centre). 
Upon conclusion of the structure analysis, the business operations can be modelled with the help 
of these modules. In so doing, a collection of relevant IT-Grundschutz modules is assigned to the 
scope under consideration (information network). This results in a collection of security require-
ments that may serve as a basis for developing the security concept. The basic and standard re-
quirements included in the IT-Grundschutz compendium and the requirements in the case of high 
protection requirements specify the generic requirements from ISO/IEC 27001 and 
ISO/IEC 27002. Furthermore, the implementation recommendations published for numerous IT-
Grundschutz modules of the IT-Grundschutz compendium include specific implementation aids 
and numerous technical safeguards for the secure operation of typical IT, ICS, or IoT systems and 
applications. Precise instructions on selecting the modules (modelling according to IT-
Grundschutz) help considering all the security-relevant aspects. This support also allows organi-
sations to achieve their desired security objectives with considerably less or indeed no need for 
assistance from external consultants. 
• 
IT-Grundschutz check: performing a target-performance-comparison 
The IT-Grundschutz check is an organisational instrument providing a quick overview of the pre-
sent level of security. With the help of interviews, the status quo of an existing information net-
work (modelled according to IT-Grundschutz) is determined in terms of the degree of implemen-
tation of the security requirements of the IT-Grundschutz compendium. The outcome of this 
check is a catalogue classifying the implementation status of each relevant requirement as “un-
necessary”, “yes”, “partially”, or “no”. By identifying requirements that have not been met yet or 
have only been met partially, potential improvements regarding the security of the business pro-
cesses under consideration and information technology are indicated.  
• 
Risk analysis

--- Página 43 ---
10 The ISMS based on BSI IT-Grundschutz 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 43 
Applying the IT-Grundschutz methodology allows for creating a level of security that is sufficient 
and appropriate for normal protection requirements. If the protection requirements for a particular 
area (such as an application or IT system) are higher or if no IT-Grundschutz modules exist for an 
area, a risk analysis should be performed after the IT-Grundschutz has been implemented.  
The BSI has developed its own risk analysis method that is based on the implementation of IT-
Grundschutz. It is described in BSI standard 200-3 Risk analysis based on IT-Grundschutz (see 
[BSI3]). However, a classical quantitative risk analysis may also be selected as the method for the 
areas concerned. If only a small area of information processing is affected, the effort required for 
an additional risk analysis is usually low. If, for example, only a specific IT system is affected 
which no IT-Grundschutz module exists for, consultation with the manufacturer or independent 
security consultant limited to this specific issue may generally already provide enough help to as-
sess the risk and select appropriate security safeguards. 
The combination of standard security safeguards and risk analysis for those areas whose protec-
tion requirements exceed the normal protection requirements is considerably more efficient than a 
complete quantitative risk analysis. Afterwards, the identified safeguards must be integrated and 
consolidated in the remaining security process. 
• 
Implementation of the safeguards 
The identified security safeguards must be planned, implemented, supervised, and monitored. For 
this, the implementation sequence of the safeguards and who must implement which safeguards 
until when should be defined. All employees using and implementing security safeguards must be 
trained on the purpose of the safeguards and on what has to be considered during use.

--- Página 44 ---
11 
Appendix 
Page 44 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
11 Appendix 
11.1 
References 
[20000] 
ISO/IEC 20000, IT Service-Management; among others consisting of ISO/IEC 
20000-1:2011, Service management – Part 1: Service management system re-
quirements and ISO/IEC 20000-2:2012, Part 2: Guidance on the application of 
service management systems, International Organization of Standardization (ISO) 
[27000] 
ISO/IEC 27000:2016 “Information technology – Security techniques – Information 
Security management systems – Overview and vocabulary”, ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27 
[27001] 
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 “Information technology – Security techniques – Information 
security management systems – Requirements”, ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27 
[27002] 
ISO/IEC 27002:2013 “Information technology – Security techniques – Code of 
practice for information security controls”, ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27 
[27005] 
ISO/IEC 27005:2011 “Information technology – Security techniques – Information 
security risk management”, ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27 
[27006] 
ISO/IEC 27006:2015 ”Information technology – Security techniques – Require-
ments for bodies providing audit and certification of information security man-
agement systems”, ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27 
[27031] 
ISO/IEC 27031:2011 “Information technology – Security techniques – Guidelines 
for information and communication technology readiness for business continuity”, 
ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 27  
[31000] 
ISO/IEC 31000, International Organization for Standardization (Ed.), “Risk man-
agement – Principles and guidelines”, ISO/IEC, November 2009 
[BSI2] 
IT-Grundschutz Methodology, BSI Standard 200-2, version 1.0, 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/grundschutz 
[BSI3] 
Risk analysis based on IT-Grundschutz, BSI Standard 200-3, version 1.0, 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/grundschutz 
[BSI4] 
Business continuity management, BSI Standard 100-4, version 1.0, 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/grundschutz 
[BSIR] 
IS revision policy on the basis of IT-Grundschutz, BSI, 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/is-revision  
[COBIT] 
COBIT (Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology), Version 5, 
ISACA, http://www.isaca.org/cobit 
[GSK] 
IT-Grundschutz Compendium – Standard Security Safeguards, BSI, annually re-
viewed, https://www.bsi.bund.de/grundschutz 
[ISF] 
The Standard of Good Practice 2016, ISF – Information Security Forum, 2016, 
https://www.securityforum.org/tool/the-isf-standardrmation-security/ 
[ITIL] 
IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL), IT-Service Management (ITSM), 
https://www.axelos.com/best-practice-solutions/itil, March 2017 
[NIST80053] 
NIST Special Publication 800-53 Revision 4, Security and Privacy Controls for 
Federal Information Systems and Organizations, NIST, 2015, 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsSPs.html 
[PCI] 
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), version 3.2, PCI Secu-
rity Standards Council (Eds.), April 2016, https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org

--- Página 45 ---
11 Appendix 
Information Security Management Systems – Version 1.0 
Page 45 
[ZERT] 
Information on the certification according to ISO 27001 on the basis of IT-
Grundschutz, BSI, https://www.bsi.bund.de/iso27001-zertifikate

