=== CISA YEAR IN REVIEW 2022.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
CISA 2022 YEAR IN 
REVIEW
CISA 2022 YEAR IN REVIEW
C
I
S
A 2022 YEAR IN REVIEW
C Y B E R S E C U R I T Y  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  S E C U R I T Y  A G E N C Y

--- Página 2 ---
2 
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W
 
 
MISSION 
We lead the national efort to understand, 
manage, and reduce risk to our cyber and 
physical infrastructure. 
VISION 
Secure and resilient critical infrastructure 
for the American people.

--- Página 3 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
LETTER FROM CISA LEADERSHIP 
Protecting our nation’s critical infrastructure 
is foundational to our national security. That 
critical infrastructure includes everything from 
healthcare, water, and education to chemical, 
transportation systems, telecommunications, 
energy, and much more. And it’s under constant 
risk from a wide array of threats. That makes 
CISA’s work to understand, manage, and reduce 
risk to the cyber and physical infrastructure 
that Americas rely on every hour of every day so 
important. 
In that context, we’re pleased to share our 
2022 CISA Year in Review which lays out the 
tremendous work by our teammates and partners 
over the past year. Organized around the four 
goals outlined in our Strategic Plan, it highlights 
key achievements toward our vision of ensuring 
secure and resilient critical infrastructure for the 
American people. 
ust a few of these highlights include the launch o
f our nationwide Shields Up campaign to s
afeguard domestic critical infrastructure from p
otential cyber attacks stemming from Russia’s 
invasion of Ukraine; the tremendous growth of 
our Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative (JCDC), 
a paradigm shift from partnership to real-time
 operational collaboration; a comprehensive cyber
 hygiene effort to help Americans people sta
y safe online; our first-ever School Safety Summit; and a full month dedicated to championing Emergency Communications. Separately, we launched our first CISA Atache office in London and are working closer than ever with our partners across the globe. We stood up our Cybersecurity Advisory Committee to help us evolve CISA into the cyber defense agency the nation deserves, and we separately welcomed recommendations from the nation’s first Cyber Safety Review Board. We developed and published groundbreaking new Cybersecurity Performance Goals to provide a common set of cyber practices for businesses large and small, and we provided support to state and local election officials to help them ensure the safety and security of the 2022 midterm elections. 
With Gratitude, 
ust a few of these highlights include the 
launch of our nationwide Shields Up ca
mpaign to safeguard domestic critical infra
structure from potential cyber attacks stemmi
ng from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine; the treme
ndous growth of our Joint Cyber Defense Col
laborative (JCDC), a paradigm shift from partn
ership to real-time operational collaboratio
n; a comprehensive cyber hygiene effort 
to help Americans people stay safe online; o
ur first-ever School Safety Summit; and a f
ull month dedicated to championing Emergency 
Communications. Separately, we launched our firs
t CISA Atache office in London and are work
ing closer than ever with our partners across the
 globe. We stood up our Cybersecurity Advisory Committee to help us evolve CISA into the cyber defense agency the nation deserves, and we separately welcomed recommendations from the nation’s first Cyber Safety Review Board. We developed and published groundbreaking new Cybersecurity Performance Goals to provide a common set of cyber practices for businesses large and small, and we provided support to state and local election officials to help them ensure the safety and security of the 2022 midterm elections. 
We accomplished all of this and much more 
through a unified spirit of collaboration and with a 
constant focus on building our CISA People First 
culture. We’re especially proud of our work over 
the past year to promote the mental health and 
wellbeing of our team. 
Over the course of the last year, we’ve been 
grateful every single day for the opportunity to 
serve with incredible teammates and partners. 
We’re proud of what we have achieved to date 
and relentlessly optimistic about our future. 
We know that 2023 will be another exciting and 
productive year. 
JEN EASTERLY 
NITIN NATARAJAN 
BRANDON WALES 
KIERSTEN TODT 
DIRECTOR 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
CHIEF OF STAFF 
i

--- Página 4 ---
i 
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Letter from CISA Leadership 
Introduction 
Cyber Defense – Leading the National Efort to Ensure Defense 
and Resilience of Cyberspace 
Risk Reduction and Resilience – Reducing Risks To and 
Strengthening Resilience of America’s Critical Infrastructure 
Operational Collaboration – Strengthening Whole-Of-Nation 
14
Operational Collaboration and Information Sharing 
Agency Unification – Unifying As One CISA Through Integrated 
Functions, Capabilities and Workforce 
Conclusion 
ii 
1 
2 
9 
19 
24

--- Página 5 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
INTRODUCTION 
W
hat is it about the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency (CISA) that makes it special? Is it the unique mission? 
The CISA Culture that draws a talented and increasingly diverse 
workforce? Or the innovative and collaborative approach we apply 
to our work with organizations and stakeholders from across the 
country and around the world? 
We would say that it’s all that…and more. 
Take a tour through the following pages to see 
how CISA worked with our partners to drive 
down risk and build resilience to cyber and 
physical threats in FY 2022. This year’s report is 
organized around the four goals outlined in the 
2023-2025 CISA Strategic Plan: Cyber Defense, 
Risk Reduction and Resilience, Operational 
Collaboration, and Agency Unification. The plan 
clearly lays out our mission and vision and sets 
the path for where we will prioritize our efforts
 over the coming 
years, and, importa
ntly, how we will measure our performance, wi
th a focus on outcomes, not just activity. This la
st piece is a challenge as anyone in the business
 of security will know, as you’re essentia
lly making investments so bad things don’t happen. That said we specifically added the word “reduce” into our mission statement this past year to hold ourselves to a higher standard of accountability for truly improving the resilience of our infrastructure.
Our Strategic Plan focuses not only on “how” 
CISA works to reduce risk and build resilience, 
but also on how the agency is unifying as “One 
CISA” through integrated functions, capabilities, 
and workforce. Ultimately, the work you see in 
this Year in Review is grounded in CISA’s core 
values of Collaboration, Innovation, Service, 
and Accountability and reflects the efforts of thousands of incredible teammates at CISA working selflessly day in and day out to protect and defend our nation. It’s been a terrific year for us and our amazing partners…and we’re just getting started!
1

--- Página 6 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
CYBER DEFENSE 
LEADING THE NATIONAL EFFORT TO ENSURE DEFENSE AND RESILIENCE 
OF CYBERSPACE 
CISA leads the national effort ort to ensure the 
defense and resilience of cyberspace. In our 
role as America’s Cyber Defense Agency, CISA 
works to build the national capacity to defend 
against, and recover from, cyber intrusions. 
This includes working with federal partners 
to bolster their cybersecurity and incident 
response postures and safeguard the federal 
civilian executive branch networks that 
support our nation’s essential operations. 
It also includes partnering with the private 
sector and state, local, tribal and territorial 
governments to detect and mitigate cyber 
threats and vulnerabilities before they 
become incidents. 
2

--- Página 7 ---
-
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
CYBER DEFENSE 
SAFEGUARDING AMERICANS 
AGAINST RETALIATORY OR 
SPILLOVER CYBER INCIDENTS 
STEMMING FROM RUSSIA’S 
GROUND WAR IN UKRAINE 
CISA started a campaign in late 2021 to warn 
critical infrastructure owners and operators to 
put their “Shields Up” and protect their systems 
from potential Russian cyber atacks intended to 
deter the United States from assisting Ukraine 
against Russia’s unprovoked invasion. The 
campaign included hundreds of briefings to 
thousands of stakeholders across the nation, 
as well as a webpage hosting CISA’s information 
on the threat environment, along with technical 
details and mitigations for network defenders on 
the latest malicious activity; guidance for every 
American on how they can stay safe online; and 
free cybersecurity resources. Since its launch in 
February 2022, the Shields Up webpage quickly 
became the most popular page on CISA.gov. 
NEW CYBERSECURITY 
PERFORMANCE GOALS RELEASED 
TO ELEVATE CYBERSECURITY 
ACROSS ALL CRITICAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS 
In October 2022, CISA released a set of 
cross-sector Cybersecurity Performance 
Goals (CPGs) to establish a common set of 
fundamental cybersecurity practices for critical 
infrastructure, with a particular focus on helping 
small- and medium-sized organizations—many 
of which form the supply chain of our major 
corporations—improve their cybersecurity 
 efforts.   efforts.  Developed at the direction of the White 
House, the CPGs lay out highly impactful actions 
organizations can take to mitigate many common 
threats to critical infrastructure Information 
Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT) 
environments. The CPGs are based on extensive 
feedback from hundreds of organizations across 
the government and the private sector, including 
our international partners. Along with the CPGs 
themselves, CISA released an accompanying 
checklist that helps organizations prioritize 
each Goal by cost, impact, and complexity. The 
voluntary goals both meaningfully reduce risks 
to critical infrastructure operations and promote 
the security and resilience of essential services 
upon which the American people depend. 
3

--- Página 8 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
CYBER DEFENSE 
SECURING OUR FEDERAL 
ENTERPRISE 
As the operational lead for federal civilian 
cybersecurity, CISA works every day to advance 
the security and resilience of government 
systems. In 2022, we made revolutionary 
advances in this mission. Using new authorities 
and resources provided by Congress, we 
deployed new technologies across nearly 50 
federal agencies, with more coming online 
every month. These technologies provide an 
unsurpassed level of visibility into threats and 
incidents targeting federal networks, allowing 
faster detection and reducing damaging impacts 
from our adversaries. We made the critical 
decision to sunset the legacy EINSTEIN program, 
which used government technologies to detect 
threats targeting federal networks, and have 
launched a new effort to provide modern, agile 
capabilities using commercial shared services. 
We have also pivoted many of the resources 
historically used for the EINSTEIN program into 
building our new analytic environment, which 
will allow our operators and partners to analyze 
and correlate cyber risk information to identify 
trends and drive more effective remediation—an
 effort that will culminate in deployment of a Join
t Collaborative Environment (JCE). We also use
d our authorities to issue Binding Operational Directive 22-01, which has transformed how organizations within the federal government and around the world prioritize vulnerabilities by driving a focus on those weaknesses that threat actors are actually using to cause harm. Finally, we took significant steps to implement new authorities from Congress to conduct persistent threat hunting and “red team” assessments, launching new programs that will allow greater confidence in the security of the highest-risk federal systems.  
4

--- Página 9 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYBER DEFENSE 
COORDINATING VULNERABILITY 
DISCLOSURE 
At CISA, we often say that cybersecurity is a team
 sport. Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure, or
 CVD, is a key example of how this team effor
t can work. CVD is the process of coordinatin
g mitigation or remediation and public disclosur
e of newly identified cybersecurity vulnerabilities i
n products and services with the af
fected vendors. 
To help ensure users and system administrators 
receive clear and actionable information in a 
timely manner while simultaneously reducing 
the adversaries’ opportunity to respond, we 
work to ensure that the affected vendors and the
 vulnerability reporter all disclose simultaneously.
 CVD demonstrates how important it is for
 vulnerability reporters and affected vendors t
o work together to ensure owners and operator
s can promptly and effectively remedia
te vulnerabilities in their environments. The CVD process provides a way to unite the cyber community through teamwork and collaboration in order to protect each other and the public from potential threat activity.
CISA sponsors the Vulnerability Information and 
Coordination Environment (VINCE) as a means 
to support the CVD process for cybersecurity 
researchers across the globe to report, 
communicate, and coordinate the mitigation 
of vulnerabilities with U.S. and international 
vendors. 
MORE THAN 700 COORDINATED 
VULNERABILITY DISCLOSURES IN 2022 
In 2022 CISA coordinated 713 CVD 
cases and produced 416 vulnerability 
advisories. CVD has streamlined the 
patch development and deployment 
process for millions of devices annually 
due to the direct communication between 
vulnerability researchers and vendor(s) 
and/or service provider(s). This process 
reduces uncertainties and inaccuracies 
with the vulnerability information and the 
provided remediation guidance, instilling 
trust that the cyber ecosystem has in CVD-
coordinated security advisories. 
5

--- Página 10 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
CYBER DEFENSE 
JOINT CYBER DEFENSE 
COLLABORATIVE (JCDC) MARKS 
FIRST YEAR, GROWS MEMBERSHIP 
Established by Congress in 2021, the Joint 
Cybersecurity Defense Collaborative (JCDC) 
aims to fundamentally transform how we 
reduce cyber risk to our country: through 
continuous operational collaboration between 
trusted partners in the public and private 
sectors and by conducting rigorous planning 
to address the most significant threats before 
damaging intrusions occur. By bringing together 
government partners like the FBI, the National 
Security Agency (NSA), and U.S. Cyber Command 
with private sector partners, we have developed 
a new platform to drive down risk to the nation at 
scale. 
With representation from nearly all the 16 critical 
infrastructure sectors, the JCDC has already 
improved communication and cooperation 
between industry and government, leading to 
significant additions to the known exploited 
vulnerabilities catalog and contributions to 
cybersecurity advisories. In FY22, upon the 
discovery of the Log4Shell vulnerability in Apache 
Log4j software, JCDC shared indicators of
 compromise, threat activity, and intelligence with
 and among JCDC members to enable partners
 to act quickly on this threat affecting softwa
re broadly used in a variety of consumer a
nd enterprise services, websites, and applications— as well as in operational technology products—to log security and performance information. Additionally, JCDC and international partners collaborated to quickly release a joint cybersecurity advisory to share technical details and recommended mitigations to the broader cybersecurity community, helping the community to better 
ter understand and manage the threat 
posed by Log4Shell and related vulnerabilities. 
CISA and JCDC members also developed and 
exercised a Russia-Ukraine Tensions Plan to 
guide collective operational posture and prepare 
synchronized defensive actions to mitigate 
harmful impacts to U.S. critical infrastructure 
from potential Russian cyber-attacacks intended to 
deter the United States from assisting Ukraine 
against Russia’s unprovoked invasion. 
In April 2022, JCDC expanded to include 
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) security 
vendors, integrators, and distributors. These 
critical industry experts will help further increase 
the U.S. government’s focus on the cybersecurity 
and resilience of industrial control systems and 
operational technology (ICS/OT). 
CISA’s Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative 
(JCDC) has formed relationships with over 
150 Computer Emergency Response 
Teams (CERTs) worldwide and collaborates 
through operational networks that provide 
unparalleled situational awareness of threat 
activity and allows us to coordinate actions 
with foreign partners to counter those 
threats in real time. Over the past year, 
CISA has continued to publish an increasing 
number of joint cybersecurity advisories 
with international partners and has 
increased its work with nations like Estonia, 
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Georgia, the 
Czech Republic, Ukraine, and those across 
Eastern Europe. These joint advisories have 
been tremendously beneficial during the 
Shields Up campaign. 
6

--- Página 11 ---
-
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
CYBER DEFENSE 
CISA 
CYBERSECURITY 
ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE 
In December 2021, CISA announced and 
launched our inaugural Cybersecurity Advisory 
Committee (CSAC) meeting. The CSAC is
 a federal advisory committee comprised of 22 private sector leaders across diverse professions and communities. The Committee was created to provide recommendations on the development and refinement of CISA’s cybersecurity programs and policies. In FY22 the CSAC held four quarterly meetings and 94 subcommittee meetings and provided CISA’s Director with 53 recommendations that will keep us well-positioned to address threats in a rapidly changing cybersecurity landscape.  
In June 2022, CISA launched the first-of 
its-kind Cyber Innovation Fellows Program, 
offering private sector cybersecurity experts
 a unique opportunity to contribute to and
 engage with CISA’s cybersecurity operational
 teams. The program marks another important
 milestone in our engagement with a broader
 community of experts whose training and
 expertise, creativity, and desire to make a
 difference in improving global cybersecurit
y will make valuable contributions to ou
r
 mission. As of December, we have selected six fellows who will join us in early 2023.
The Cyber Safety Review Board (CSRB) was 
established to review and assess significant 
cybersecurity events so government, industry 
and the broader security community can better
 protect our nation’s networks and infrastructure.
 The Board’s first report, released July 14, reflects
 its inaugural review of the vulnerabilities in
 the Log4j software library. Log4j softwa
re is integrated into millions of systems, and
 a vulnerability in such a ubiquitous piece 
of software impacts companies, organizatio
ns, and governments all over the world. The C
SRB engaged with nearly 80 organizations 
and individuals to gather insights, inform findin
gs, and develop 19 actionable recommendati
ons for government and industry to address 
the continued risks posed by vulnerabilities in 
the Log4j open-source software library.
7

--- Página 12 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
RISK REDUCTION AND 
RESILIENCE 
REDUCING RISKS TO AND STRENGTHENING RESILIENCE OF AMERICA’S 
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE 
The nation’s safety and security depend 
risk to infrastructure and systems while 
on the ability of critical infrastructure to 
also building our stakeholders’ capacity to 
prepare for and adapt to changing conditions 
safeguard their infrastructure from these 
and to withstand and recover rapidly from 
risks. 
disruptions. CISA works to proactively reduce 
8

--- Página 13 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
RISK REDUCTION AND RESILIENCE 
FIRST-OF-ITS-KIND 
CYBERSECURITY GRANTS FOR 
STATE, LOCAL, TERRITORIAL 
GOVERNMENTS 
CISA and the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) collaborated on a first-of-its-kind 
State and Local Cybersecurity Grant Program 
to help under-resourced state, local, and 
This innovative program was established by the 
State and Local Cybersecurity Improvement 
Act, part of the Infrastructure Investment and 
Jobs Act, to help address the unique challenges 
state and territorial governments face when 
defending against cyber threats. Since the grant 
was announced, CISA’s cybersecurity advisors 
and cybersecurity state coordinators have 
provided direct support to SLT CIOs, CISOs and 
Emergency Managers to answer grant application 
territorial (SLT) partners build cyber resiliency. 
questions. 
CYBER STORM RECOGNIZED AS 
THE NATION’S CYBERSECURITY 
EXERCISE 
This past spring, CISA held our eighth Cyber 
Storm exercise. Held biennially, Cyber Storm 
brings together the public and private sectors 
to simulate discovery of and response to a 
significant cyber incident impacting the Nation’s 
critical infrastructure. It provides the framework 
for the most extensive government-sponsored 
cybersecurity exercise of its kind and is part of 
our ongoing efforts to assess and strengthen
 cyber preparedness of the nation. This was the
 first Cyber Storm exercise conducted pursuant
 to the requirements of the FY21 National Defense
 Authorization Act, which called for National Cyber Exercises to examine national response to a significant cyber-attack impacting critical infrastructure. As the most successful Cyber Storm to date, the exercise included more than 2,000 participants from 33 federal agencies, nine states, 100 private sector companies, and 16 partner countries to drive improvements in cybersecurity policy and plans.
 
CYBER STORM VIII 
NATIONAL CYBER EXERCISE 
BACKGROUND 
The Cyber Storm exercise series provides a venue for the federal government, state 
and local government, the private sector, and international partners to come together 
to simulate response to a large-scale, coordinated, significant cyber incident impacting 
the nation’s critical infrastructure. Cyber Storm VIII, planned for Spring 2022, will allow 
participants to exercise their cyber incident response plans and identify opportunities 
for coordination and information sharing. Cyber Storm exercises have historically 
engaged more than 1,000 distributed players over the course of three days of live 
exercise play. Building on the success and momentum of Cyber Storm 2020 and 
lessons learned from real-world events, Cyber Storm VIII is positioned to meaningfully 
prepare participants for response to emerging and evolving threats.  
ENHANCING CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE CAPABILITIES 
The cyber threat landscape continues to expand and advance, requiring public and private sectors to constantly 
evaluate their cyber incident response capabilities. Building on the outcomes of previous iterations, Cyber Storm 
VIII will examine all aspects of cyber incident response including potential or actual physical impacts of a 
coordinated cyber attack targeting critical infrastructure. Cyber Storm VIII provides a unique opportunity for 
organizations to evaluate their internal cyber incident response plans, while coordinating with those at the 
federal, state, and private sector levels. Together, participants will identify areas for growth and improvement to 
strengthen our national cyber resiliency. 
Figure 1: Cyber Storm Exercise Series Benefits 
CYBER STORM VIII PARTICIPATION 
• Cyber Storm VIII includes organizations across federal, state, and international governments and the 
private sector 
• Participating organizations will work directly with CISA to understand CISA’s role and capabilities in a 
cyberattack. 
• Participants operate in working groups to meet organization- and sector-specific objectives and 
improve coordination capabilities through the exercise. 
• Benefits of participation include improved understanding of current cyber risks, awareness of incident 
response resources, strengthened relationships with counterparts, and refined communications 
strategies. 
CISA | DEFEND TODAY, SECURE TOMORROW 
cisa.gov 
cyberstorm@cisa.dhs.gov 
Linkedin.com/company/cisagov 
@CISAgov | @cyber | @uscert_gov 
Facebook.com/CISA 
@cisagov 
9

--- Página 14 ---
-
-
-
-
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
RISK REDUCTION AND RESILIENCE 
INAUGURAL NATIONAL SUMMIT 
ON K-12 SCHOOL SAFETY AND 
SECURITY FOCUSES ON SAFE 
AND SUPPORTIVE LEARNING 
ENVIRONMENTS 
From November 1-3, CISA brought together 
federal, state, and local school leaders to 
share actionable recommendations that 
enhance safe and supportive learning 
environments in kindergarten through grade 
12 (K 12) schools. This first-of-its-kind virtual 
event fostered a nationwide dialogue on 
school safety, providing a venue to share 
resources, products, and tools to support 
schools in implementing and strengthening 
their security postures. Based on the post 
event survey, 96% of Summit participants 
SCHOOL SAFETY SUMMIT 
PARTICIPATION 
A range of individuals from across the 
country with a passion for improving 
school safety participated in the Summit. 
• 7,874 individuals registered for the 
Summit. 
• 93% of Summit participants indicated 
their work primarily served a school or 
district within the K 12 community. 
•  The Summit had participation from
 the K 12 community in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and Puerto Rico. More than 300 Summit participants were international attendees.  
•  55% of Summit participants indicated 
their primary job role was serving directly 
at a school or district level. 
indicated they are either extremely likely or likely 
to apply one or more resources or strategies 
presented within their school or district, and 
88% of Summit participants indicated they either 
strongly agree or agree the Summit exceeded 
their expectations. 
10

--- Página 15 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
RISK REDUCTION AND RESILIENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
OPERATION FLASHPOINT 
HELPS RETAILERS REPORT 
AND ADDRESS SALES OF 
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS 
CHEMICALS 
In June 2021, CISA and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (FBI) launched a 90-day pilot for 
a joint initiative called “Operation Flashpoint.” 
Operation Flashpoint enhances CISA’s 
Bomb-Making Materials Awareness Program 
(BMAP), expands outreach and support to 
encourage our private sector partners that 
sell explosive precursor chemicals to take 
voluntary measures to properly secure these 
chemicals and to report and/or prevent 
suspicious transactions. In response to 
several cyber incidents, CISA worked with 
high-risk chemical facilities and facilities that 
possess dangerous chemicals to identify 
potential vulnerabilities and share mitigation 
measures to ensure the security of those 
chemicals. The BMAP/Operation Flashpoint 
Team visited more than 8,368 retail spaces 
across the country during FY22 as part of 
its outreach campaign. 
NEW VOLUNTARY CHEMICAL 
SECURITY INITIATIVE LAUNCHED 
In November 2021, CISA launched ChemLock, 
a new voluntary chemical security initiative. 
The ChemLock program provides facilities 
that possess dangerous chemicals with 
tailored, scalable, no-cost services and tools to 
improve their chemical security posture. CISA 
gained our chemical security expertise from 
more than a decade of working with high-risk 
chemical facilities under the Chemical Facility 
Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) regulatory 
program. 
OUTREACH TO HISTORICALLY BLACK 
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
(HBCU) 
In response to the threats to HBCUs 
throughout 2022, CISA mobilized resources 
such as its Protective Security Advisors 
(PSA) to reach out to all 108 Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities across 
the country to provide support. 
As a result, we developed new relationships 
with 56 HBCUs and received requests for 
assistance from 37 HBCUs. 
Additionally, we conducted 27 courses in 
bombing prevention, trained more than 
1,300 participants, and delivered over 
1,500 products. 
 CISA also conducted an active shooter
 preparedness webinar across the 16 affected states and communities with 348 registered attendees.  
11

--- Página 16 ---
-
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
RISK REDUCTION AND RESILIENCE 
EDUCATING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE 
ABOUT SIMPLE STEPS TO STAY SAFE 
ONLINE 
As part of our efforts to raise awareness 
of cyber hygiene and what every American 
can do to stay safe online, we launched a 
campaign to highlight the importance of 
Multifactor Authentication, including urging 
implementation of phishing-resistant MFA 
and how to use it. 
As part of this campaign, we 
also promoted 4 Steps to 
Keep you Cyber Safe: 
• Implement multifactor 
authentication on your 
accounts and make it 
significantly less likely 
you’ll get hacked. 
EXERCISING TO BUILD 
RESILIENCE FOR PUBLIC SAFETY 
COMMUNICATIONS: JAMX22 
In April 2022, CISA, along with the Department 
of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and 
Technology Directorate (S&T), co-hosted 
JamX22, an event that assessed the impact 
of jamming on public safety communications 
systems and mission response and identified 
gaps in training with our public safety 
communications partners. The 2022 event 
continued efforts from the 2016 and 2017 First
 Responder Electronic Jamming Exercises. As
 part of our role, CISA participated in the JamX22 VIP Demonstration and developed the Public Safety Communications and Cyber Resiliency Toolkit to assist public safety agencies and others responsible for communications networks in evaluating current resiliency capabilities, identifying ways to improve resiliency, and developing plans for mitigating the effects of potential resiliency threats.
•  Update your software. In fact, turn o
n automatic updates.  
•  Think before you click. More than 90%
 of successful cyber attacks start with 
a phishing email.  
• Use strong passwords, and ideally a 
password manager to generate and store 
unique passwords.

--- Página 17 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
RISK REDUCTION AND RESILIENCE 
INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN 2022: 
ACTIVITIES AND TRAINING 
•  Conducted 163 exercises around the 
nation with 14,260 total participants. 
FY22 had 54 more exercises that FY21. 87% 
of respondents stated exercises enhanced 
individual or organizational preparedness. 
• Conducted nearly 1,830 Chemical Facility 
Anti-Terrorism Standards inspections 
across the country, which represents 57% 
of high-risk facilities, well exceeding the 
target of 35%. The CFATS program has 
assisted more than 10,000 facilities since 
the program began. 
• Documented 2,500+ IED-related 
incidents; supported 27+ Special Events; 
and conducted 791 C-IED and Risk 
Mitigation training courses for 18,330 
participants. 
• Trained its 150,000th person in counter-
IED measures and techniques. 
• The School Safety Task Force provided 11 
trainings, for over 4,937 participants. 
PRODUCTS 
• Distributed 142,400+ C-IED Awareness 
Products. 
•  Delivered 114 Active Shooter 
Preparedness webinars to critical 
infrastructure, international, law 
enforcement, emergency response, 
interagency, and private sector 
stakeholders with over 32,600 registrants 
and had 139,835 website visits to cisa. 
gov/active-shooter-preparedness. 
• Released the K-12 School Security Guide 
(3rd ed., 2022) and companion products 
which provide a comprehensive doctrine 
and systems-based methodology to 
support schools in conducting vulnerability 
assessments and planning to implement 
layered physical security elements across 
K–12 districts and campuses. The guide was 
downloaded more than 2,400 times in its 
first six months. 
• Delivered 120 Infrastructure Visualization Platform products and collaborated on 42 Regional Resiliency Assessments Projects. These collaborative assessment efforts with the owners and operators of critical infrastructure led to the identification of facility security and resilience vulnerabilities and proposed recommendations for mitigating those vulnerabilities. In addition, CISA supported over 200 Infrastructure Survey Tool (IST) assessments. Of the facilities undergoing the IST, 92% responded they were likely to integrate vulnerability assessment or survey information into their security and resilience enhancements. 
13

--- Página 18 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
OPERATIONAL 
COLLABORATION 
STRENGTHENING WHOLE-OF-NATION OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION 
AND INFORMATION SHARING 
Collaboration is at the heart of everything 
oriented collaboration and we do so with 
we do at CISA because, securing our nation’s 
humility, transparency, gratitude, and a firm 
cyber and physical infrastructure is a shared 
resolution to add value wherever possible. 
responsibility. Everyday, CISA is actively 
CISA is also committed to growing and working with our government, industry, strengthening the agency’s regional presence academic, and international partners to to more effe
fectively deliver the assistance our 
move toward more forward-leaning, action-
stakeholders need. 
14

--- Página 19 ---
-
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION 
CISA GOES GLOBAL 
The cybersecurity threats we face are borderless. 
In 2022 we expanded our collaboration with 
the international community. For example, we 
formalized operational cooperation with several 
international partners through Joint Work Plans 
(JWPs) and Memorandums of Understanding 
(MOUs), including the United Kingdom, Australia, 
Singapore, Israel, the United Arab Emirates 
(UAE), and Ukraine. 
In July, CISA opened our first Atache office.
 Based in London, to serve as a focal point for
 international collaboration between CISA, UK
 government officials, and other federal agenc
y officials. We also hosted onsite liaisons from t
he UK’s National Cyber Security Centre and t
he Australian Signals Directorate.
Through State Department funded foreign 
assistance, CISA implements international 
capacity building, technical assistance, and 
enhanced information sharing for efforts
 like: sustaining support to the Government
 of Ukraine as they counter cyber aggression
 from Russia; partnering with the Philippines’
 Anti-Terrorism Council to support their National
 Action Plan for sof target protection; engaging
 across the Western Hemisphere through our
 partners at the Organization of American States; supporting intersections to the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework across Asia; and mitigating vulnerabilities in the Balkans.
CISA’s Office for Bombing Prevention
 collaborated with Romania, Mexico, Canada,
 the European Union, and the United Kingdom
 in addition to our work here in the U.S.
CISA is at the forefront of international 
efforts to prevent chemical terrorist
 incidents. CISA, along with the Defense
 Threat Reduction Agency, INTERPOL and
 the FBI, founded and co-implement the
 Global Congress on Chemical Security
 and Emerging Threats. In 2022, the Global
 Congress facilitated dialogue between more than 220 chemical security experts from 72 countries, including policymakers, law enforcement, regulators, industry, academia, think tanks, military, NGOs, and international organizations  
Through State Department sponsored Embassy 
Science Fellowships, CISA engaged with our 
partner in the Dominican Republic recommend  
emergency communications’ public notification 
improvements in anticipation of cybersecurity 
challenges associated with technology upgrades 
to Next Generation 9-1-1. CISA separately 
executed six U.S. Department of State-funded 
international capacity building programs reaching 
more than 1,000 participants from 31 total 
countries in FY22. The projects, workshops, and 
training focused on cyber hygiene best practices, 
resources to combat cybersecurity threats, 
ransomware threat mitigation, cyber workforce 
development strategies, Industrial Control 
Systems training, vulnerability assessments, 
and a case study on Operation Warp Speed. 
Notably, for the second consecutive year, CISA 
worked with the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City 
and the Department of State’s Export Control 
and Related Border Security (EXBS) Program 
to provide training to government officials in 
Mexico. 
15

--- Página 20 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION 
DELIVERING CISA SERVICES 
ACROSS THE COUNTRY 
CISA implements a significant portion of 
our operational mission through 10 regional 
offices which provide direct services to CISA
 stakeholders across the country. These
 regional offices are essentially microcosms o
f CISA that deliver and coordinate communit
y-based solutions on behalf of the agency. Thes
e include prevention, protection, mitigation
, response, and recovery solutions for cyber
, physical, and emergency communication
s risks impacting critical infrastructure aroun
d the nation. Additionally, the agency provide
s situational awareness, information sharing
, technical assistance, outreach, vulnerabilit
y notifications, and incident respons
e coordination. Last, but not least, throug
h Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
, our regionally based Chemical Inspector
s engage chemical facilities and other stakeholders to secure potentially dangerous chemicals throughout the Nation.
During response operations CISA deployed 
staff to support state, local, tribal and
 territorial government partners, providing
 emergency communications, critical
 infrastructure recovery coordination, and
 advanced technical services to assist with
 federal response and recovery operations. For
 example, CISA Regional Offices supported 194 incidents and 197 special events this past year. 
OUR “NO WRONG DOOR” APPROACH 
• Nationwide hybrid security advisor 
cadre 
• Advisors trained on all aspects 
of cyber, physical, emergency 
communications security 
•  Ensures CISA stakeholders receive 
the services they need when they are 
needed 
Over the past year, CISA has expanded our 
support for each state to have a Cybersecurity 
State Coordinator (CSC), additional CSAs, 
Protective (Physical) Security Advisors, and 
regional staff to seamlessly pivot to address 
emerging threats and vulnerabilities. 
In 2022, CISA marked a significant milestone 
when we fully integrated CISA’s Emergency 
Communications Coordinators (ECCs) into 
the agency’s Regional Office field forces, 
furthering operational capabilities and 
capacity where the demand was highest. 
Through these programs, we helped ensure 
public safety, national security, and emergency 
preparedness communities can communicate 
seamlessly and securely. 
16 
5 
AS
GU
CNMI
PR
USVI
8 
7 
6 
4 
3 
2 
1 
9 
10 
cisa.gov/cisa-regions

--- Página 21 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION 
FOSTERING INTEROPERABLE 
EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS 
Throughout 2022, CISA continued to pioneer 
in the realm of priority communications. We 
partnered with Idaho National Laboratory on 
an exciting Proof of Concept that tested the 
patented “CRIUS” CommCube technology. 
This effort promotes resilient route diversity of
 national security and emergency preparedness
 communications to provide an alternate
 communication pathway when networks are
 congested, damaged, or even destroyed.
 CISA, the National Association of State 911
 Administrators, the National Council of
 Statewide Interoperability Coordinators,
 and the 911 Program Office at the Nationa
l Highway Traffic Safety Administration held
 a series of interoperability workshops open 
to all states. Representatives from 38 states a
nd the District of Columbia discussed emergency communications interoperability with public safety representatives within their state. The workshop brought state emergency leadership together to communicate and collaborate ef
fectively; 
develop statewide goals and actionable steps 
for states to work toward improving emergency 
communications interoperability; and facilitated 
state conversations on how to deepen and 
enhance emergency communications governance 
structures to facilitate greater interoperability and 
decision-making. 
CISA focused on securing the public’s most 
direct route to emergency services, the 
Nation’s emerging Next Generation 911 system. Production of guidance, including “Two Things Every 911 Center Should Do to Improve Cybersecurity” and the “911 Cyber Incident Response Case Studies Suite” based on real-world events are helping administrators better prepare for and respond to cyber incidents. In recognition of the criticality of this effort, CISA received initial funding within the FY22 appropriation in support of a new program dedicated to ensuring Next Generation 911 systems align with NIST cybersecurity standards, while preserving the ability to work with all forms of data, video and information services. Public safety officials partnered with CISA to release cybersecurity educational materials tailored to the public safety operational environment such as the “First 48: What to Expect When a Cyber Incident Occurs” document and the Guide to Getting Started with a Cyber Risk Assessment. 
AS PART OF OUR EMERGENCY 
COMMUNICATIONS MISSION THIS YEAR, 
CISA: 
► Added 123,236 new Wireless Priority 
Services users to CISA Priority Services. 
► Completed 214 requests for technical 
assistance in 46 states for a total of 5,000 
participants. 
► Conducted 112 Communications Unit 
focused Training courses for a total of 1,680 
students. 
CISA focused on securing the public’s most dire
ct route to emergency services, the Nation’s 
emerging Next Generation 911 system. Produc
tion of guidance, including “Two Things Every 911
 Center Should Do to Improve Cybersecurity” and 
the “911 Cyber Incident Response Case Studies Suite
” based on real-world events are helping adminis
trators better prepare for and respond to cyber i
ncidents. In recognition of the criticality of this effort, CISA received initial funding within the FY22 appropriation in support of a new program dedicated to ensuring Next Generation 911 systems align with NIST cybersecurity standards, while preserving the ability to work with all forms of data, video and information services. Public safety officials partnered with CISA to release cybersecurity educational materials tailored to the public safety operational environment such as the “First 48: What to Expect When a Cyber Incident Occurs” document and the Guide to Getting Started with a Cyber Risk Assessment.  
Emergency communications are paramount 
during disasters, and this year CISA captured and 
shared lessons learned from events such as the 
Nashville bombing and Midwest derecho as well as 
serving as emergency communications specialists 
during hurricanes, floods, and other disasters.  
CISA personnel deployed extensively during 
the year to support national security events, the 
southern border, and Hurricane Ian. 
We also facilitated six Network Security 
Information Exchange (NSIE) meetings during 
FY22. NSIE industry and government members, 
including international partners, share information 
regarding threats to and vulnerabilities of the 
public network affecting national security and 
emergency preparedness telecommunications. 
► Facilitated 34 strategic workshops that 
advanced interoperable, cyber-secure and 
resilient emergency communications in 27 
states. 
► Expanded Cybersecurity service offerings to include webinars, workshops and a rapid cybersecurity assessment. 
► Engaged with public safety officials on the
 National Emergency Communications Plan
 by responding to more than 500 requests
 and inquiries.
17

--- Página 22 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
OPERATIONAL COLLABORATION 
CYBER INCIDENT REPORTING FOR 
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE ACT 
OF 2022 SET TO SIGNIFICANTLY 
ENHANCE CYBERSECURITY EFFORTS 
Many of the cybersecurity incidents that have 
occurred over the past decade could have 
been prevented by the simple sharing of timely, 
quality information following previous incidents. 
This is a critical gap that the President and 
Congress aimed to close through the enactment 
of the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical 
Infrastructure Act of 2022 (CIRCIA). 
 As required by CIRCIA, CISA has started to
 develop regulations requiring covered entities
 to report covered cyber incidents and related
 ransom payments to CISA. In line with the
 agency’s commitment to collaboration, CISA
 sought the ideas and perspectives from
 stakeholders across the spectrum—including the
 public, the private sector, and other government
 representatives—by conducting listening
 sessions across the country and accepting
 written feedback in advance of publishing the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 
CISA PARTNERS WITH THOUSANDS 
OF ELECTION OFFICIALS TO HELP 
PROMOTE SECURE ELECTIONS 
Securing our nation’s election infrastructure 
requires true partnership. CISA has been 
working with state and local election officials
 to be sure they have access to the resources,
 tools, capabilities, and information they need to
 build resilience against all threats. CISA worked
 with all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories to secure the 2022 election. This work included hundreds of election infrastructure security assessments and cybersecurity vulnerability scanning in hundreds of jurisdictions. We also included work with the 3,400-member Election Infrastructure Information Sharing and Analysis Center, which provides real-time, actionable threat and mitigation information to help state and local election officials understand the risk environment. 
► CISA triaged 37,875 cyber incident 
reports, acting on 2,609 incidents 
requiring CISA’s assistance. 
Securing our nation’s election infrastructur
e requires true partnership. CISA has been wo
rking with state and local election officials to be sure they have access to the resources, tools, capabilities, and information they need to build resilience against all threats. CISA worked with all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories to secure the 2022 election. This work included hundreds of election infrastructure security assessments and cybersecurity vulnerability scanning in hundreds of jurisdictions. We also included work with the 3,400-member Election Infrastructure Information Sharing and Analysis Center, which provides real-time, actionable threat and mitigation information to help state and local election officials understand the risk 
environment. 
Through the first three quarters of FY 2022, 
we conducted trainings, exercises, panel 
presentations, keynote speeches, and more 
around the nation to reach more than 5,000 
local, state, federal, international, and private 
sector entities with a role in election security 
and resilience. 
Tabletop the Vote, CISA’s annual National 
Elections Exercise, included more than 1,100 
participants from 48 states, 16 federal 
agencies, and 18 sector partners, addressing 
cyber and physical security challenges to election 
infrastructure. 
18

--- Página 23 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
AGENCY UNIFICATION 
UNIFYING AS ONE CISA THROUGH INTEGRATED FUNCTIONS, 
CAPABILITIES, AND WORKFORCE 
Foundational to our success, the agency is 
based on core values and core principles that 
unifying as One CISA through integrated 
prize teamwork and collaboration, innovation 
functions, capabilities, and workforce. The 
and inclusion, ownership and empowerment, 
agency is building a culture of excellence 
transparency and trust. 
19

--- Página 24 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
AGENCY UNIFICATION 
BUILDING A WINNING CISA 
CULTURE 
CISA is a great place to work because of 
our people and our culture. CISA’s Core 
Values represent the fundamental tenets 
of the organization and guide all our 
actions: Collaboration, Innovation, Service, 
Accountability. The agency’s Core Principles 
represent the ideal behaviors that will make our 
workforce individually and collectively successful. 
They are rooted in CISA’s mission and vision, 
emanate from the agency’s Core Values, and 
define our Culture: What we aim to cultivate in 
our organization, what we value, and what we 
aspire to be. 
In our effort to build a unique culture at America’s
 youngest federal agency—one that truly puts
 People First, cultivates psychological safety,
 and incubates innovative ideas—we launched a
 three-phased Culture Sprint to help manifest our
 Core Principles into our everyday lives. 
 
• In Phase One, we launched a series of 
Psychological Safety Workshops, which 
were open to all CISA employees and 
contractors, and required for all supervisors. 
These workshops focused on the concept of 
psychological safety, the mission imperative of 
cultivating a culture where everyone is free to 
be their authentic self at work and treated with 
dignity and respect, and the innovative power 
that comes from a culture where psychological 
safety is a norm. 
• In Phase Two, we held CommUNITY Circles, 
which further explored the concepts discussed 
in the workshops. These Circles offerered the 
opportunity for employees to share how 
they are implementing the lessons from the 
workshops into their workplace as we build the 
foundation of CISA’s People First culture. 
• And, in Phase Three, we graduated 119 CISA 
employees from a 6-week Culture Cohort. This 
cohort laid the groundwork to unleash the 
innovative power of our workforce, launching 
a unique employee-driven innovation hub. 
Moving forward, this platform will enable 
employees to propose novel concepts for how 
to help build CISA into the agency that the 
nation deserves.  
20

--- Página 25 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
2022 DECLARED CISA’S YEAR OF 
MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING 
 The COVID-19 pandemic took a toll on mental
 health for millions of Americans and was a
 key driver of workplace burnout over the past
 several years, something reflected in numerous
 engagements with our CISA workforce. That
 is why we committed to making 2022 the Yea
r of Mental Health and Wellbeing—because w
e believe that mental health IS health. To tha
t end, we pursued a series of efforts to review our 
existing support to employees, expand existing 
resources wherever possible, and launch novel 
new initiatives. 
AGENCY UNIFICATION 
• Educating Ourselves & Combating Stigmas. 
A key first step toward addressing mental 
health challenges is to raise awareness, create 
a conversation, and address misperceptions. 
To do so, we hosted ten Town Halls with 
world-renowned wellness experts, medical 
professionals, and mental health advocates, 
including Yale Professor Laurie Santos, 
burnout prevention author Jennifer Moss, and 
wellness thought leaders Guy Winch and Morra 
Aarons-Mele. These discussions focused on 
the science behind mental health, practical 
tips on how to prevent and combat burnout, 
and the imperatives for any organization to 
safeguard wellbeing in its workforce. 
• Taking Action. While visibility is critically 
necessary, we also knew that it was in and of 
itself insufficient. To take action on what we 
learned, we highlighted existing resources for 
employees and spearheaded new initiatives. 
This included launching CISA CARES, a 
consolidated resource hub for employees 
to leverage wellness services, rolling out the 
Headspace mindfulness app free-of-charge 
for employees, and establishing Meditation 
Rooms for employees to reserve throughout 
the workday. 
A recent employee survey noted that these 
efforts were both relevant and useful, we plan 
to continue championing mental health and 
wellness as priority focus areas in the years to 
come. 
21

--- Página 26 ---
to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  As part of our mission to recruit diverse cybersecurity talent and build the workforce of the future, we awarded $2 million to two innovative organizations for development of cyber  workforce training programs. The  
  As part of our mission to recruit diverse cybersecurity talent and build the workforce of the future, we awarded $2 million to two innovative organizations for development of cyber  workforce training programs. The  
  As part of our mission to recruit diverse cybersecurity talent and build the workforce of the future, we awarded $2 million to two innovative organizations for development of cyber  workforce training programs. The  
 
  organizations, which received the awards, focus on the unemployed and underemployed; underserved communities in urban and rural areas; as well as traditionally underserved populations, to include veterans, military spouses, women, and people of color. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
AGENCY UNIFICATION 
AN ONGOING COMMITMENT TO 
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, INCLUSION, 
AND ACCESSIBILITY 
CISA is dedicated to advancing, welcoming, 
and celebrating all forms of diversity from 
neurodiversity, diversity of gender identity, 
race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, religion, 
disability, and social and economic background. 
Diversity of experience equals diversity of thought 
and that makes us better problem solvers.
In FY22, we instituted a mandatory instructor-
led, two-session training—Stronger Together: 
The Power of Diversity & Inclusion, which was 
completed by over 2100 employees. Training 
topics included: “Language Maters,” “Making the 
Case for Inclusive Diversity,” “Practicing Inclusive 
Diversity,” “Making the Unconscious Conscious,” 
“Values Training,” “Identifying and Reducing Bias,” 
“5 Habits of Inclusivity,” and “Structured Tools to 
Combat Bias.” 
In addition, we stood up an External Civil Rights 
and Civil Liberties (ECRCL) function to ensure 
the agency executes our mission while preserving 
individual liberty, fairness, and equality under 
the law. As one of its first actions, the ECRCL 
team created CISA’s first Language Access Plan, 
 setting  setting CISA on a path to develop and implement 
reasonable  efforts to eliminate or reduce barriers 
to persons with limited English proficiency to 
accessing CISA resources, services, activities, and 
events. 
We are also dedicated to working across the 
broader community to ensure individuals from 
every background and walk of life have an equal 
opportunity to work in the field of cybersecurity. 
Our country and our global networks are strongest 
when our workforce reflects the full diversity of the 
American people. We continue to seek new ways 
to promote diversity and inclusion both at CISA 
and across the cybersecurity community at large. 
• We partnered with Girls Who Code  to develo
p pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government.   to develop pathways for  young
 women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and 
technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government.   to develop pathways for  youn
g women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government.   to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  to develop pathways for  young women t
o pursue careers in cybersecurity and te
chnology. This partnership will seek  to t
ackle diversity disparities by  working to
 heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
  to develop pathways for  young women to pursue careers in cybersecurity and technology. This partnership will seek  to tackle diversity disparities by  working to heighten the awareness of cybersecurity and technology careers and working with employers to build tangible pathways for young women, especially young women of color, to get hands-on experience in the private sector, the non-profit sector, or government. 
•   As part of our mission to recruit diver
se cybersecurity talent and build the workforce of the future, we awarded $2 million to two innovative organizations for development of cyber  workforce training programs. The  
  As part of our mission to recruit diverse cybersecurity talent and build the workforce of the future, we awarded $2 million to two innovative organizations for development of cyber  workforce training programs. The    As part of our mission to recruit diverse cybersecurity talent and build the workforce of the future, we awarded $2 million to two innovative organizations for development of cyber  workforce training programs. The  NPower
and CyberWarrior  organizations, which receive
d the awards, focus on the unemployed a
nd underemployed; underserved communities
 in urban and rural areas; as well as traditionally underserved populations, to include veterans, military spouses, women, and people of color. 
  organizations, which received the awards, f
ocus on the unemployed and underemployed; underserved communities in urban and rural areas; as well as traditionally underserved populations, to include veterans, military spouses, women, and people of color. 
• We joined forces with CYBER.ORG and Girl 
Scouts of the USA to create a Cyber Awareness 
Challenge. Through the challenge, girls across 
the country are given direct access to fun 
activities that will strengthen their skills and 
interest in cybersecurity.
• Our Cybersecurity Defense Education and 
Training Program (CDET), through CYBER.ORG, 
initiated a partnership with nine Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) through 
Project REACH | Cyber.org. The partnering 
institutions include Morgan State University, 
Claflin University, Langston University, 
University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, Stillman 
College, Shaw University, Voorhees College, 
Lane College, and Bowie State University. For 
each HBCU partner, CYBER.ORG is working to 
develop partnerships with three surrounding 
high schools that receive Title-I funding and 
serve historically underrepresented students to 
build cybersecurity course pathways.
22

--- Página 27 ---
23 
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGENCY UNIFICATION 
STANDING UP A NEW 
PROCUREMENT CAPABILITY 
As a young agency, CISA did not initially have 
its own internal contracting capabilities and 
was supported by the Department of Homeland 
Security headquarters oversight for its 
contracting requirements activity within CISA. In 
FY 22, Congress took the important step to fund 
positions to stand up a contracting office in CISA.
 Additionally, the Executive Director of the DHS
 Office of Procurement Operations, as the Hea
d of Contracting Activity, delegated the necessar
y authorities to CISA’s new Chief of the Contractin
g Office. The development of this office 
and the delegated procurement authorities 
now allows CISA to directly coordinate the planni
ng, execution, and administration of the agenc
y’s contracts. As a direct result of this new authori
ty, CISA’s internal procurement processes 
are becoming more efficient, with better alig
nment among the CISA portfolios to ensure op
timal and streamlined contracting vehicles
. Our new procurement office is able to engag
e with CISA programs early, as they discuss co
ntract requirements, which helps reduce turn
around times for contracting actions. Notab
ly, we continue to focus on managing our procu
rement spending through our Strategic So
urcing program and leveraging Best in Class
 (BIC) contract vehicles to eliminate redunda
ncies, increase efficiencies, and deliver va
lue and savings to taxpayers. For vendors wantin
g to do business with us, our new procurement capability enables industry to directly interact with our Contracting Officers and Program Offices on specific contract requirements. As we look to 2023, CISA will take advantage of this new authority to begin developing a small business program to help small businesses learn how to do business with us.

--- Página 28 ---
C I S A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I N  R E V I E W  
CONCLUSION 
LOOKING BACK, FORGING AHEAD 
It is hard to believe CISA just turned four years 
old on November 16, 2022. Over the course of 
FY22, we accomplished much to advance our 
vision of secure and resilience infrastructure, 
while laying the groundwork for ever deeper 
and increasingly substantial efforts in the
 coming years. Many of the projects launched
 this past year—like the cybersecurity grant
 program for state, local and territorial
 governments, implementation of CIRCIA, and
 the Cybersecurity Performance Goals—are
 multi-year efforts that will mature and expan
d in FY23 and beyond. We’ll see a tribal versio
n of the cybersecurity grant program launche
d in 2023, tailored to the Native America
n community. The relationships develope
d through our international engagement
s will continue to mature and bear fruit a
s we confront the ever-evolving cyber-threa
t landscape. Building on CISA’s Strategi
c Plan, the agency will produce supportin
g strategies, including the Stakeholde
r Engagement Strategic Plan that was release
d in October and a Cybersecurity Strategi
c Plan to be released in early 2023, to guide ou
r efforts over the coming years. Through CISA’s regional presence, we will continue to support the federal response to major disasters like Hurricane Ian, where we provided information on critical infrastructure impacts, facilitated infrastructure prioritization and restoration effo
forts, and kept communication channels 
open for emergency responders. And (!), 
we will be launching a completely updated 
website to ensure our resources, information 
and assistance is readily available to all our 
partners and stakeholders. 
As we saw in 2022, things move fast here. 
Heading into the new year, be sure to follow 
us on social media to stay current on new 
developments, engage CISA directly through 
our regions or headquarters programs, and 
take part in the many information sharing 
opportunities we offer, both in-pe rson and virtually
24

--- Página 29 ---
C I S  A  2 0 2 2  Y E A R  I  N  R E V I  E W  
ABOUT CISA 
 The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
 (CISA) is the newest agency in the federal government,
 established in 2018 to be America’s Cyber Defense
 Agency. We serve as the National Coordinator for critical
 infrastructure security and resilience, leading the effor
t to understand, manage, and reduce risk to the cybe
r and physical infrastructure that Americans rely on ever
y hour of every day. As the majority of our nation’s critica
l infrastructure is owned and operated by the private sector
, operational collaboration is foundational to our efforts. 
We work with a wide array of partners across the globe—fr
om every industry, to federal, state, local, tribal, territorial, a
nd international governments, to non-profits, academia, a
nd the research community—connecting them together a
nd to the resources, tools, and information that will help th
em fortify their security and resilience against current a
nd emerging threats.  
CISA.GOV 
LINKEDIN.COM/COMPANY/CISAGOV 
@CISAGOV  | @CISACYBER  | @CISAJEN 
FACEBOOK.COM/CISA 
@CISAGOV 
@CISAGOV 
25

