=== CISO.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
CHIEF INFORMATION 
 H A N D B O O K  
SECURITY OFFICER

--- Página 2 ---
2 
CONTENTS 
Document ObjecƟves………………………………………………………...……………………………….……….3 
ExecuƟve Summary………………………………………………………………...…………………………..………3 
Acknowledgements……………………………………………………………………….……………………..……..5 
SECTION 1: CISO Roles & ResponsibiliƟes…………………………………………………..………………..…..6                            
    1.1  CISO Role at a Glance…………………………………………………………………………..………………..….7                                  
    1.2  Overview of Key OrganizaƟons…………………………………………………………….…………………..11 
    1.3  ReporƟng Requirements……………………………………………………………………….……………......24 
SECTION 2: Managing Your Risk Across the Enterprise…………………………………………………...28 
    2.1  CISO Reference SecƟon: Federal Risk Management………………………………………………...31 
    2.2  The NIST Cybersecurity Framework at a Glance………………………………………………...…....35 
    2.3  CISO Reference SecƟon: Government-wide  Requirements..……………………………...…...50 
    2.4  Government-wide Approaches…………………………………………………………………………..…...53 
SECTION 3: Management Resources……………………………………………...…………..…………….…...60 
    3.1  Workforce………………………………………………………………………………………………...……..……..62 
    3.2  ContracƟng………………………………………………………………………………………………………........65 
    3.3  Government-wide Services……………………………………………………………………………….…....69          
 
SECTION A: Appendix………………………………………………………………………………………………..…..70
    A.1  Example Agency Internal Policies...………………………………………………………………...……...72
    A.2. Government-wide Policies and PublicaƟons………….……………………………………..……….128 
    A.3 FISMA Responsibility Breakdowns…………...…………………………………………………...…......136 
    4.4 GSA Services ……………………………………..……………………………………………………...…………..162 
    A.5 Glossary………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….166

--- Página 3 ---
3 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This handbook aims to give CISOs important informaƟon they will need to implement Federal cybersecurity at their 
agencies. It is designed to be useful both to an execuƟve with no Federal Government experience and to a seasoned 
Federal employee familiar with the nuances of the public sector. At its core, the handbook is a collecƟon of resources 
that illuminate the many facets of the cybersecurity challenge and the related issues and opportuniƟes of Federal 
management.  
SecƟon 1 outlines the CISO’s role within the agency and in the Federal Government as a whole. The secƟon starts with 
an overview of the statutory language that deﬁnes the CISO’s mandate and the responsibiliƟes agencies have with 
regards to informaƟon and informaƟon security. Next comes an overview of key organizaƟons and their roles in 
Federal cybersecurity. The secƟon concludes with a summary of the many kinds of reporƟng the CISO must conduct to 
keep the agency accountable to government-wide authoriƟes. 
In SecƟon 2, the challenge of cybersecurity is broken down into two parts: managing risk across the enterprise and 
government-wide policies and iniƟaƟves. Each part begins with summaries of key reference documents for that aspect 
of the challenge.  
The risk management porƟon of SecƟon 2 uses as its guide The Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure 
Cybersecurity, agencies’ implementaƟon of which was mandated by ExecuƟve Order 13800. To provide a systemaƟc 
overview of the risk management process, example agency policies are mapped to speciﬁc objecƟves in the 
Cybersecurity Framework Core as well as to key NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology (NIST) publicaƟons. 
SecƟon 2 concludes with examples of government-wide approaches to cybersecurity. These examples show how an 
iniƟaƟve or threat can be translated into policy that must then be incorporated into agency-level operaƟons and 
policy. 
SecƟon 3 contains informaƟon to help CISOs manage their organizaƟon’s resources. The secƟon begins with an 
overview of Federal workforce and hiring authoriƟes and the mechanisms by which a CISO can develop an eﬀecƟve 
cybersecurity team. An overview of contracƟng follows with summaries of Federal acquisiƟon regulaƟons and 
DOCUMENT OBJECTIVES 
x Educate and inform new and exisƟng Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcers (CISOs) about their role in successfully 
implemenƟng Federal cybersecurity.  
x Provide resources to help CISOs responsibly apply risk management principles to help Federal agencies meet 
mission objecƟves. 
x Make CISOs aware of laws, policies, tools, and iniƟaƟves that can assist them as they develop or improve cyber-
security programs for their organizaƟons

--- Página 4 ---
4 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY(CONT) 
contracƟng vehicles. SecƟon 3 ends with a high-level overview of the government-wide services designed to help CISOs 
beƩer perform their duƟes and improve the cybersecurity posture of their agency and, by extension, the Federal 
Government as a whole.  
The appendices contain links and reference documents that direct CISOs to more detailed informaƟon on the tools, 
policies, and best pracƟces discussed in this handbook. The “FISMA Responsibility Breakdowns” and the “Government-
wide Policies and PublicaƟons” porƟon were developed speciﬁcally for this handbook.  
As a whole, this handbook is meant to provide CISOs with a foundaƟonal understanding of their role. The informaƟon 
is presented in plain language with the expectaƟon that it will be reinforced with detailed analysis of both government
-wide and agency-speciﬁc resources. The tools, iniƟaƟves, policies, and links to more detailed informaƟon make the 
handbook an eﬀecƟve reference document regardless of the reader’s familiarity with Federal cybersecurity.

--- Página 5 ---
5 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
This handbook would not have been possible without the contribuƟons and eﬀorts of the CISO Handbook Federal 
Working Group, which included representaƟves from the Oﬃce of Personnel Management, the Department of Health 
and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Oﬃce of Management and Budget’s Oﬃce of 
the Federal Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer, the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer/Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer Council and the 
General Services AdministraƟon’s Oﬃce of Government-wide Policy. Thanks to Incapsulate, LLC and REI Systems, Inc. 
for developing the content of the handbook, and to Eagle Hill ConsulƟng for their work in formaƫng and graphics.

--- Página 6 ---
6 
S E C T I O N  1
 
THE CISO ROLES &  
RESPONSIBILITIES 
1.1 The CISO Role at a Glance 
1.2 Overview of Key Organizations 
1.3 Reporting Requirements

--- Página 7 ---
7 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
The Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (FISMA)1 states: 
Under § 3554. Federal agency responsibiliƟes 
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall— (1) be responsible for— 
(A) providing informaƟon security protecƟons commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm resulƟng 
from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or destrucƟon of— 
(i) informaƟon collected or maintained by or on behalf of the agency; and 
(ii) informaƟon systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organizaƟon on 
behalf of an agency 
[…] 
(C) ensuring that informaƟon security management processes are integrated with agency strategic, operaƟonal, and 
budgetary planning processes. 
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall—(3) delegate to the agency Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer…the authority to 
ensure compliance with the requirements imposed on the agency under this subchapter, including— 
(A) designaƟng a senior agency informaƟon security oﬃcer who shall— 
(i) carry out the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer’s responsibiliƟes under this secƟon; 
(ii) possess professional qualiﬁcaƟons, including training and experience, required to administer the funcƟons 
described under this secƟon; 
(iii) have informaƟon security duƟes as that oﬃcial’s primary duty; and 
(iv) head an oﬃce with the mission and resources to assist in ensuring agency compliance with this secƟon 
The head of each agency has a legislaƟve mandate to maintain and improve the security of their agency’s 
informaƟon and informaƟon systems. In most cases, the agency’s internal policies delegate management of 
the agency’s informaƟon to the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer (CIO). Under FISMA, the CIO may then delegate 
tasks related to informaƟon security to the senior agency informaƟon security oﬃcer (oOen referred to as 
CISO).  
1.1 
THE CISO ROLE 
AT A GLANCE 
The CISO’s Legislative Mandate: FISMA 2014  
The Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 
1For the purposes of this document, “FISMA” will refer the 2014 law, not the Federal InformaƟon Security Management Act of 2002.

--- Página 8 ---
8 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
x Agencies may organize their informaƟon security reporƟng structure in diﬀerent 
ways, but ulƟmately all informaƟon security funcƟons are the responsibility of 
the agency head. See “The CISO Within an Agency” secƟon below. 
x ReporƟng requirements, breach and major incident responsibiliƟes, and other 
funcƟons may be directly called out in legislaƟon or indirectly established 
through organizaƟonal authoriƟes. 
x FISMA also deﬁnes the government-wide informaƟon security roles played by key 
organizaƟons (e.g. Oﬃce of Management and Budget, Department of Homeland 
Security). For a complete breakdown of these roles, see “FISMA Responsibility 
Breakdowns” in SecƟon A.3 of the appendices.  
LEGISLATIVE MANDATE
The head of each agency has a legislaƟve mandate to maintain and improve the security of their agency’s 
informaƟon and informaƟon systems. In most cases, the agency’s internal policies delegate management of 
the agency’s informaƟon to the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer (CIO). Under FISMA, the CIO may then delegate 
tasks related to informaƟon security to the senior agency informaƟon security oﬃcer (oOen referred to as 
CISO).  
1.1 
THE CISO ROLE 
AT A GLANCE

--- Página 9 ---
9 
1.1 
AGENCY-WIDE INFORMATION SECURITY TASKS 
While FISMA requires agencies to delegate informaƟon security tasks to their respecƟve CISOs, those tasks are not 
organized in the same manner at each agency. FISMA does not instruct agencies on how to develop or maintain their 
informaƟon security programs; it simply lists agencies’ informaƟon security responsibiliƟes. Agencies are encouraged 
to approach compliance with government-wide requirements in a manner that ﬁts their respecƟve missions and 
resource capabiliƟes.  
Because no two agency missions are exactly the same, no two CISO roles are exactly the same. Some CISOs are 
responsible for all informaƟon security tasks at their agency, while others work with separate operaƟons centers or 
take on tasks outside of informaƟon security to help with organizaƟonal prioriƟes.2 Although FISMA allows for these 
nuances, CIOs and CISOs are ulƟmately statutorily responsible for informaƟon security, so they must be aware of the 
range of informaƟon security responsibiliƟes assigned to agencies.  
The following are some of the key informaƟon security responsibiliƟes assigned to agencies as a whole. Depending on 
the agency, these tasks may or may not fall enƟrely or exclusively to the CISO. 
x Agencies must comply with: 
¡ExecuƟve Orders or PresidenƟal Memoranda issued by the President and with policies or guidance 
issued by the Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB). Those issued by the President will oOen be 
accompanied or followed by OMB guidance and implementaƟon Ɵmelines. (See SecƟon 1.2. Oﬃce of 
Management and Budget) 
¡Minimum security requirements and standards promulgated by the NIST. (See SecƟon 1.2. NaƟonal 
InsƟtute of Standards and Technology) 
¡Binding operaƟonal direcƟves (BODs) developed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). 
These direcƟves are developed in response to a known or reasonably suspected informaƟon security 
threat, vulnerability or risk. (See SecƟon 1.2. Department of Homeland Security) 
x Agencies must develop and maintain an agency-wide informaƟon security program that can perform the 
following funcƟons: 
¡The agency must be able to assess risk and determine the appropriate level of protecƟons for assets. 
NIST publicaƟons are designed to help agencies assess risk. Once the proper controls are in place, they 
must be periodically tested and evaluated to ensure compliance.  
¡The agency must develop and maintain informaƟon security policies, procedures, and control 
techniques to address all applicable government-wide requirements. Examples of agency policy and 
procedure development can be found in SecƟon 2. 
¡The agency must comply with Federal reporƟng requirements including progress on remedial acƟons 
(typically called Plan of AcƟon and Milestones (POA&M)). 
¡ The agency must develop plans and procedures to ensure conƟnuity of operaƟons for informaƟon 
2In a December 2017 survey of CISOs, several respondents listed responsibiliƟes outside of informaƟon security. Examples of those 
 
responsibiliƟes include Deputy CIO duƟes, privacy and privacy incident response, Controlled Unclassiﬁed InformaƟon (CUI)  
 
duƟes, and healthcare sector outreach.  
THE CISO ROLE 
AT A GLANCE

--- Página 10 ---
10 
systems that support the operaƟons and assets of the agency. 
¡ The agency must ensure informaƟon security staﬀ members are trained and that all agency personnel 
are held accountable for complying with the agency-wide informaƟon security program. Workforce 
management is addressed in SecƟon 3. 
x AddiƟonal agency responsibiliƟes include: 
¡ ReporƟng breaches and major incidents to the US-Computer Emergency Readiness Team operated by 
DHS within mandatory Ɵmelines. (See SecƟon 1.3. ReporƟng Requirements) 
¡ Ensuring CISOs have the appropriate professional qualiﬁcaƟons to lead informaƟon security across the 
agency as their primary responsibility, implement cybersecurity soluƟons where necessary, and ensure 
their oﬃce directs its mission and resources toward enhancing agency cybersecurity. 
1.1 
THE CISO ROLE 
AT A GLANCE

--- Página 11 ---
11 
1.2 
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
FISMA states:  
Under § 3553. Authority and funcƟons of the Director [OMB] and the Secretary [DHS] 
DIRECTOR.—The Director [OMB] shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies and pracƟces, including 
developing and overseeing the implementaƟon of policies, principles, standards, and guidelines on informaƟon 
security […] 
Under § 3553. Authority and funcƟons of the Director [OMB] and the Secretary [DHS] 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director [OMB], in consultaƟon with the Secretary [DHS], 
shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the 
preceding year […] 
Under § 3555. Annual independent evaluaƟon 
AGENCY REPORTING.—Each year, not later than such date established by the Director [OMB], the head of each 
agency shall submit to the Director [OMB] the results of [their agency’s] evaluaƟon required under this secƟon. 
 
OMB OVERVIEW 
OMB is responsible for overseeing Federal agencies’ informaƟon security pracƟces. As part of this core func-
Ɵon, OMB develops and ensures implementaƟon of policies and guidelines that drive enhanced cybersecurity 
performance and budgeƟng across the ExecuƟve Branch. The Federal Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer 
(Federal CISO) leads the OMB Cyber and NaƟonal Security Unit (OMB Cyber). OMB Cyber is the dedicated team 
within the Oﬃce of the Federal Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer (OFCIO) that works with Federal agency leadership to 
address informaƟon security prioriƟes. OMB Cyber partners with DHS to develop cybersecurity policies, con-
duct data-driven oversight of agency cybersecurity programs, and coordinate the Federal response to cyber 
incidents.3 
3FISMA Annual Report to Congress FY2016  
hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/brieﬁng-room/presidenƟal-acƟons/related-omb-material 
fy_2016_ﬁsma_report%20to_congress_oﬃcial_release_march_10_2017.pdf

--- Página 12 ---
12 
 
x OMB OFCIO: 
¡ Guides cybersecurity policy, planning, and implementaƟon in the Federal 
Government. 
¡ Reports to the Federal Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer (Federal CIO). 
¡ Leads cyber response and communicaƟon eﬀorts as well as communicaƟon with 
Congress and the public.
¡ Partners with the Oﬃce of InformaƟon and Regulatory Aﬀairs (OIRA) to address 
related privacy concerns such as System of Records NoƟces (SORNs) and Privacy 
Impact Assessments (PIAs), including Third Party Web ApplicaƟon PIAs. Circular 
A-130 also contains speciﬁc government-wide privacy requirements.4 
x OMB partnership with DHS:  
¡ OMB works closely with DHS to collect reports on cybersecurity incidents, 
readiness, and compliance with cybersecurity policies.  
¡ OMB and DHS partner to deﬁne agency performance and drive change both 
government-wide and within agencies through annual statutory FISMA metrics 
and other OMB- and DHS-developed processes and programs. 
x AddiƟonal OMB roles and responsibiliƟes: 
¡ FISMA authorizes OMB to deﬁne the term “major incident” and further directs 
agencies to noƟfy Congress of a major incident, a process in which the Federal 
CISO is heavily involved. The most recent deﬁniƟon is provided in OMB M-18-02, 
while guidance for agency incident handling can be found in The US-CERT 
Federal Incident NoƟﬁcaƟon Guidelines. 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
4Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a  
hƩps://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/USCODE-2012-Ɵtle5/pdf/USCODE-2012-Ɵtle5-partI-chap5-subchapII-sec552a.pdf 
Circular A-130 – Managing InformaƟon as a Strategic Resource 
hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/circulars/A130/a130revised.pdf 
M-17-12 – Preparing for and Responding to a Breach of Personally IdenƟﬁable InformaƟon  
hƩps://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/m-17-12_0.pdf 
M-17-06 – Policies for Federal Agency Public Websites and Digital Services  
hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/m-17-06.pdf 
M-10-22 – Guidance for Online Use of Web Measurement and CustomizaƟon Technologies 
hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2010/m10-22.pdf 
M-10-23 – Guidance for Agency Use of Third-Party Websites and ApplicaƟons  
hƩps://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/memoranda_2010/m10-23.pdf

--- Página 13 ---
13 
 
x OIRA is responsible for providing assistance to Federal agencies on privacy 
maƩers, developing Federal privacy policy, and overseeing implementaƟon of 
privacy policy by Federal agencies in coordinaƟon with OMB Cyber. 
x OMB drives outcomes related to PresidenƟal direcƟves. For example, in response 
to ExecuƟve Order 13800, the recent Report to the President on Federal IT 
ModernizaƟon made recommendaƟons for modernizing Federal networks (such 
as prioriƟzing High Value Assets and Trusted Internet ConnecƟons) and 
expanding the use of shared and cloud-based services.5 
x Budget planning and execuƟon is another of OMB’s criƟcal missions. OMB issues 
detailed annual budget guidance to agencies in the form of Circular A-11 and 
accompanying memos. Because budgets must be planned two years in advance, 
CISOs must be aware of new guidance and also be prepared to jusƟfy budgetary 
requests. 
x Cross Agency Priority (CAP) Goals, established by the President’s Management 
Agenda, are a management tool used to accelerate progress on objecƟves that 
require both senior leadership focus and the coordinaƟon of mulƟple agencies. 
The CAP Goal mechanism helps coordinate cross-agency collaboraƟon to achieve 
mission outcomes. The current cycle of four-year outcome-oriented objecƟves 
will run from FY2018 through FY2021. 
1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
(CONT) 
5ExecuƟve Order 13800 –  
hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/presidenƟal-acƟons/presidenƟal-execuƟve-order-strengthening-cybersecurity-federal-networks-criƟcal  
infrastructure/ 
Report to the President on Federal IT ModernizaƟon – 
 hƩps://itmodernizaƟon.cio.gov/assets/report/Report%20to%20the%20President%20on%20IT%20ModernizaƟon%20-%20Final.pdf

--- Página 14 ---
14 
1.2 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
FISMA states: 
Under § 3553. Authority and funcƟons of the Director [OMB] and the Secretary [DHS]
Secretary [DHS].—The Secretary [DHS], in consultaƟon with the Director [OMB], shall administer the implementaƟon 
of agency informaƟon security policies and pracƟces for informaƟon systems 
[…] including assisƟng the Director [OMB] in carrying out the authoriƟes and funcƟons under [the subsecƟon estab-
lishing the Director [OMB]’s authority and funcƟons 
[…] including developing and overseeing the implementaƟon of binding operaƟonal direcƟves to agencies to imple-
ment the policies, principles, standards, and guidelines developed by the Director [OMB] […] 
Under § 3556. Federal informaƟon security incident center 
IN GENERAL.—The Secretary [DHS] shall ensure the operaƟon of a central Federal informaƟon security incident center 
to […] provide Ɵmely technical assistance to operators of agency informaƟon systems regarding security incidents, 
including guidance on detecƟng and handling informaƟon security incidents […] 
 
The Federal Cybersecurity Enhnacement Act states: 
Under § 1524. Assesment; reports, 
(A) Secretary of Homeland Security report—Not later than 6 months aOer December 18, 2015, and annually there-
aOer, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional commiƩees a report on the status of imple-
mentaƟon of the intrusion detecƟon and prevenƟon capabiliƟes[…] 
 
DHS OVERVIEW 
FISMA designates DHS as the operaƟonal lead for Federal cybersecurity and provides DHS authority to coordinate 
government-wide cybersecurity eﬀorts. DHS issues binding operaƟonal direcƟves (BODs) to agencies on acƟons to 
improve their cybersecurity as part of this coordinaƟon of eﬀorts. DHS also provides operaƟonal and technical assis-
tance to agencies through the operaƟon of the Federal informaƟon security incident center and other tools (See Sec-
Ɵon 3.3).6 The FY19 budget includes $1.0 billion to support DHS’s eﬀorts to safeguard the Federal Government’s civil-
ian informaƟon technology systems against cybersecurity threats. These funds also support DHS eﬀorts to share cy-
bersecurity informaƟon with state, local, and tribal governments, as well as with internaƟonal partners and the pri-
vate sector.7 
6FISMA Annual Report to Congress FY2016 
hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/brieﬁng-room/presidenƟal-acƟons/related-omb-material/
fy_2016_ﬁsma_report%20to_congress_oﬃcial_release_march_10_2017.pdf 
7Budget Of The U. S. Government for Fiscal Year 2019 hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/budget-fy2019.pdf

--- Página 15 ---
15 
1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
 
 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
x DHS develops and oversees the implementaƟon of BODs. These are developed in 
consultaƟon with OMB to implement the policies, principles, standards, and guidelines 
developed by OMB in accordance with FISMA and other authoriƟes. BODs target 
government-wide acƟon, whether in response to a speciﬁc threat or a policy direcƟve 
from the President. DHS also partners with NIST to ensure BODs align with government-
wide standards.8 
x DHS provides incident response assistance to all Federal Agencies in accordance with 
PresidenƟal Policy DirecƟve 41 (PPD-41)and FISMA. DHS operates the Federal 
InformaƟon Security incident center known as US-CERT. US-CERT’s criƟcal mission 
acƟviƟes include:  
¡ Providing cybersecurity protecƟon to Federal civilian execuƟve branch agencies 
through intrusion detecƟon and prevenƟon capabiliƟes. 
¡ Developing Ɵmely and acƟonable informaƟon for distribuƟon to Federal 
departments and agencies; state, local, tribal and territorial (SLTT) governments; 
criƟcal infrastructure owners and operators; private industry; and internaƟonal 
organizaƟons. 
¡ Responding to incidents and analyzing data about emerging cybersecurity 
threats. 
x DHS provides common security capabiliƟes and tools for agencies: 
¡ The NaƟonal Cybersecurity ProtecƟon System (commonly known as “EINSTEIN”) 
detects and blocks cyber aƩacks from compromising Federal agencies. It also 
provides DHS with the situaƟonal awareness to use threat informaƟon detected 
in one agency to protect the rest of the Government and to help the private 
sector protect itself. 
x PresidenƟal Policy DirecƟve 21 (PPD-21) spells out the policy for how the Federal 
Government builds trusted partnerships with the private sector. It idenƟﬁes 16 criƟcal 
infrastructure sectors and designates associated Federal Sector-Speciﬁc Agencies (SSAs) 
to lead each public-private partnership. DHS is the designated SSA for many sectors, 
including InformaƟon Technology. Cross-sector coordinaƟon is handled by the NSC.9 
8Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014, 35 U.S.C. § 3553 
9PresidenƟal Policy DirecƟve-21 – CriƟcal Infrastructure Security and Resilience 
hƩps://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-oﬃce/2013/02/12/presidenƟal-policy-direcƟve-criƟcal-infrastructure-
security-and-resil

--- Página 16 ---
16 
1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
(CONT) 
¡ The ConƟnuous DiagnosƟcs and MiƟgaƟon (CDM) program provides Federal de-
partments and agencies with capabiliƟes and tools that idenƟfy cybersecurity 
risks on an ongoing basis, prioriƟze these risks based on potenƟal impacts, and 
enable cybersecurity personnel to miƟgate the most signiﬁcant problems ﬁrst. 
¡ In addiƟon to the protecƟon provided by US-CERT, the Industrial Control Systems 
Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT)’s assessment products improve sit-
uaƟonal awareness and provide insight, data, and idenƟﬁcaƟon of control sys-
tems threats and vulnerabiliƟes. ICS-CERT’s core assessment products and ser-
vices include self-assessments using ICS-CERT’s Cybersecurity EvaluaƟon Tool 
(CSET). CSET provides an excellent means to perform a self-assessment of the 
security posture of an agency’s control system environment. 
¡ Conducts Federal Cybersecurity CoordinaƟon, Assessment, and Response (C-
CAR) calls to ensure that agency CIOs and CISOs are empowered with the neces-
sary informaƟon to drive criƟcal detecƟon or miƟgaƟon acƟviƟes across their 
agencies and provide DHS with the informaƟon necessary to understand govern-
ment-wide risk. 
x AddiƟonal DHS responsibiliƟes: 
¡ Operates the Trusted Internet ConnecƟons (TIC) IniƟaƟve to opƟmize and stand-
ardize the security of individual external network connecƟons currently in use by 
Federal agencies, including connecƟons to the Internet. 
¡ Facilitates Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) across the Federal Government and 
the private sector, in accordance with the Cybersecurity InformaƟon Sharing Act 
(CISA) of 2015.

--- Página 17 ---
17 
Focus On: NCCIC 
The NCCIC within DHS serves as a central locaƟon where a diverse set of partners involved in cybersecurity and 
communicaƟons protecƟon coordinate and synchronize their eﬀorts. 
The US-CERT coordinates incident response across the Federal Government, among other funcƟons. US-CERT’s 
criƟcal mission acƟviƟes include: 
xProviding cybersecurity protecƟon to Federal civilian execuƟve branch agencies through intrusion detecƟon 
and prevenƟon capabiliƟes; 
xDeveloping Ɵmely and acƟonable informaƟon for distribuƟon to Federal departments and agencies; SLTT 
governments; criƟcal infrastructure owners and operators; private industry; and internaƟonal organizaƟons; 
xResponding to incidents and analyzing data about emerging cybersecurity threats; and 
xCollaboraƟng with foreign governments and internaƟonal enƟƟes to enhance the naƟon’s cybersecurity 
posture. 
 
The ICS-CERT focuses on criƟcal infrastructure and works to reduce risks within and across all sectors by partnering 
with law enforcement agencies and the intelligence community. ICS-CERT leads this eﬀort by: 
xResponding to and analyzing major control systems-related incidents; 
xConducƟng vulnerability, malware, and digital media analysis; 
xProviding onsite incident response services; 
xProviding situaƟonal awareness in the form of acƟonable intelligence; 
xCoordinaƟng the responsible disclosure of vulnerabiliƟes and associated miƟgaƟons; and 
xSharing and coordinaƟng vulnerability informaƟon and threat analysis through informaƟon products and alerts 
 
The NaƟonal CoordinaƟng Center for CommunicaƟons (NCC or NCC Watch) conƟnuously monitors naƟonal and 
internaƟonal incidents and events that may impact emergency communicaƟons. NCC: 
xPartners with 11 Federal Government agencies and over 60 private sector communicaƟons and IT companies; 
xLeads emergency communicaƟon response and recovery eﬀorts under the NaƟonal Response Framework.  
InformaƟon Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) 
Also within NCCIC, some sectors maintain ISACs. These non-proﬁt, member-driven organizaƟons are formed by 
criƟcal infrastructure owners and operators to share informaƟon between government and industry. Examples 
include The MulƟ-State InformaƟon Sharing and Analysis Center (MS-ISAC) and the CommunicaƟons ISAC. 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
1.2

--- Página 18 ---
18 
1.2 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
FISMA states: 
Under § 3553. Authority and funcƟons of the Director [OMB] and the Secretary [DHS] 
CONSIDERATION.—IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the responsibiliƟes [under this subsecƟon], the Secretary [DHS] shall 
consider any applicable standards or guidelines developed by the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology and 
issued by the Secretary of Commerce [...]  
CONSIDERATION.—DIRECTIVES.—The Secretary [DHS] shall—  
(A) consult with the Director of the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology regarding any binding operaƟon-
al direcƟve that implements standards and guidelines developed by the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and 
Technology;  
The NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology Act states: 
Under § 278g–3. Computer standards program, 
IN GENERAL.—The InsƟtute shall—  
(1) have the mission of developing standards, guidelines, and associated methods and techniques for informaƟon 
systems;  
(2) develop standards and guidelines, including minimum requirements, for informaƟon systems used or operated 
by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organizaƟon on behalf of an agency, other than naƟonal 
security systems (as deﬁned in secƟon 3542 (b)(2) of Ɵtle 44, United States Code); and  
(3) develop standards and guidelines, including minimum requirements, for providing adequate informaƟon securi-
ty for all agency operaƟons and assets, but such standards and guidelines shall not apply to naƟonal security 
systems.  
 
NIST OVERVIEW 
A bureau of the Department of Commerce, NIST provides Federal standards and technical resources on informaƟon 
security that CISOs use to ensure agencies eﬀecƟvely manage risk and the Oﬃces of Inspector General (OIG) uses to 
evaluate maturity. OMB and DHS leverage NIST guidance as they develop mandates and iniƟaƟves. NIST creates 
mandatory Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards (FIPS) and provides management, operaƟonal, and technical 
security guidelines on a broad range of topics, including incident handling and intrusion detecƟon, the establishment 
of security control baselines, and strong authenƟcaƟon.

--- Página 19 ---
19 
 1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
x NIST publicaƟons are collected online in the Computer Security Resource Center (CSRC). 
NIST develops standards and guidance through a deliberaƟve process with both Federal 
and civilian input. 
¡ Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards (FIPS) establish mandatory require-
ments for informaƟon processing.10 
¡ NIST Special PublicaƟons (SPs) provide guidance for developing agency-wide in-
formaƟon security programs, including guidelines, technical speciﬁcaƟons, rec-
ommendaƟons, and reference materials. NIST SPs comprise mulƟple sub-series: 
iThe NIST SP 800-series focuses on computer security, and 
iThe NIST SP 1800-series provides cybersecurity pracƟce guides. 
¡ NIST Internal or Interagency Reports (NISTIRs) are reports of research ﬁndings, 
including background informaƟon for FIPS and SPs. 
¡ NIST InformaƟon Technology Laboratory BulleƟns (ITL BulleƟns) are monthly 
overviews of NIST's security and privacy publicaƟons, programs, and projects. 
x The Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity (referred to as the 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework) provides a common taxonomy and mechanism for or-
ganizaƟons to:  
¡ Describe their current and target cybersecurity postures, 
¡ IdenƟfy and prioriƟze opportuniƟes for improvement, 
¡ Assess progress toward their target, and  
¡ Communicate among internal and external stakeholders about cybersecurity 
risk. 
x Each agency’s Oﬃce of Inspector General (OIG) considers FIPS and SPs when evaluaƟng 
the eﬀecƟveness of agency informaƟon security programs. NIST encourages tailoring of 
guidance to agency needs. OIG expects those tailoring decisions and associated risk deci-
sions to be reﬂected in the organizaƟon’s policies, procedures, and guidance.
x The NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) provides a foundaƟonal process that inte-
grates security and risk management acƟviƟes into the system development life cycle 
and brings many of the NIST documents together into an overall approach to managing 
risk. 
x NIST’s NaƟonal Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE) is a collaboraƟve hub where 
industry organizaƟons, Government agencies, and academic insƟtuƟons work together 
to address businesses’ most pressing cybersecurity issues. 
1040 U.S.C. §11331. ResponsibiliƟes for Federal informaƟon systems standards

--- Página 20 ---
20 
General Services Administration 
1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
GSA OVERVIEW 
GSA provides management and administraƟve support to the enƟre Federal Government and establishes acquisiƟon 
vehicles for agencies’ use. GSA’s informaƟon technology acquisiƟon services and oﬀerings are updated along with 
government-wide policy and are oﬀered through collaboraƟon with DHS, OMB, and other organizaƟons both inside 
and outside the Federal Government. 
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
(CONT) 
x GSA’s Highly AdapƟve Cybersecurity Services (HACS) streamlines the acquisiƟons pro-
cess for cybersecurity risk assessments that follow the DHS NaƟonal Cybersecurity As-
sessments and Technical Services (NCATS) standards (See SecƟon 3.2). 
x The Federal IdenƟty, CredenƟal, and Access Management (FICAM) program provides 
collaboraƟon opportuniƟes and guidance on IT policy, standards, implementaƟon and 
architecture to help Federal agencies implement idenƟty, credenƟal, and access man-
agement (ICAM) policy. 
x GSA maintains common plaƞorms for government-wide use such as login.gov, 
cloud.gov, IDManagement.gov, and others. 
x GSA’s Oﬃce of InformaƟon Technology Category (ITC) provides integrated, soluƟons-
based telecommunicaƟons and IT infrastructure services that blend telecommunica-
Ɵons technologies. The Enterprise Infrastructure SoluƟons (EIS) program is a compre-
hensive soluƟon-base vehicle to address all aspects of federal agency IT telecommuni-
caƟons, and infrastructure requirements. 
x The Federal Risk and AuthorizaƟon Management Program (FedRAMP) program pro-
vides informaƟon on Federal authorizaƟon requirements for cloud compuƟng. (See 
SecƟon 3.2) .

--- Página 21 ---
21 
1.2 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
GSA collaborates with OMB to sponsor ExecuƟve Councils for inter-agency communicaƟon and also assist. OMB in the 
development of government-wide policies and guidance. The councils vary signiﬁcantly in their scope and subject 
maƩer, but they all serve three core funcƟons: 
x To create communiƟes of pracƟce that can share approaches, soluƟons and lessons learned across government 
so that success in one agency can be shared across the enterprise 
x To provide a venue for feedback on policy development based on the perspecƟve and experience of on the 
ground pracƟƟoners 
x To solve systemic management challenges that require collaboraƟon across organizaƟonal and funcƟonal silos

--- Página 22 ---
22 
1.2 
Independent Bodies 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
Office of Inspector General (OIG) 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
Under § 3555. Annual independent evaluaƟon, FISMA states: 
IN GENERAL.— Each year each agency shall have performed an independent evaluaƟon of the informaƟon security 
program and pracƟces of that agency to determine the eﬀecƟveness of such program and pracƟces.  
Under § 3555. Annual independent evaluaƟon, FISMA also states: 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR.—Subject to subsecƟon (c)— for each agency with an Inspector General appointed under the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, the annual evaluaƟon required by this secƟon shall be performed by the Inspector 
General or by an independent external auditor, as determined by the Inspector General of the agency. 
 
OIG OVERVIEW 
FISMA requires each agency’s Inspector General (IG) or an independent external auditor to conduct an annual 
independent evaluaƟon to determine the eﬀecƟveness of the informaƟon security program and pracƟces of its 
respecƟve agency. The metrics for these evaluaƟons are updated annually through a collaboraƟon between OMB, 
DHS, and the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Eﬃciency (CIGIE), in consultaƟon with the Federal CIO 
Council. OIGs are valuable partners to CISOs because they help provide an independent view of agency-wide 
cybersecurity programs. They can help idenƟfy weaknesses and areas for improvement. 
Government Accountability Office (GAO) 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
FISMA states: 
Under § 3555. Annual independent evaluaƟon 
COMPTROLLER GENERAL.—The Comptroller General shall periodically evaluate and report to Congress on— the ade-
quacy and eﬀecƟveness of agency informaƟon security policies and pracƟces 
 
GAO OVERVIEW 
The GAO, headed by the Comptroller General of the United States, is an independent, nonparƟsan agency that works 
for Congress. As part of their mission to invesƟgate how the Federal Government spends taxpayer dollars, they con-
duct evaluaƟons of agencies’ informaƟon security policies and pracƟces.12 Their primary method of evaluaƟon is the 
Federal InformaƟon System Controls Audit Manual (FISCAM), which is consistent with the NIST Cybersecurity Frame-
work. 
12About GAO hƩps://www.gao.gov/about/index.html

--- Página 23 ---
23 
1.2 
National Security 
OVERVIEW  
OF KEY 
ORGANIZATIONS 
WHAT THE LAW SAYS 
TITLE 50—SUBCHAPTER I—COORDINATION FOR NATIONAL SECURITY states: 
Under § 3021. NaƟonal Security Council
In addiƟon to performing such other funcƟons as the President may direct, for the purpose of more 
eﬀecƟvely coordinaƟng the policies and funcƟons of the departments and agencies of the 
Government relaƟng to the naƟonal security, it shall, subject to the direcƟon of the President, be the 
duty of the Council [...] to consider policies on maƩers of common interest to the departments and 
agencies of the Government concerned with the naƟonal security, and to make recommendaƟons to 
the President in connecƟon therewith.  
 
NSC OVERVIEW 
The NSC Cybersecurity Directorate advises the President of United States on cybersecurity issues from a naƟonal 
security and foreign policy perspecƟve and is part of the execuƟve oﬃce of the President.13 In accordance with PPD-
41, the NSC Cyber Response Group (CRG) coordinates with OMB and collaborates with Federal agencies to implement 
the AdministraƟon’s Federal cybersecurity prioriƟes. The CRG supports the NSC DepuƟes and Principals CommiƩees 
and is accountable through the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism (APHSCT).14 
The NSC champions government-wide cybersecurity iniƟaƟves and may also facilitate sector engagement when an 
iniƟaƟve, incident, or other situaƟon requires such coordinaƟon. 
National Security Council (NSC) 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) 
FBI OVERVIEW 
The FBI is the component of the Department of JusƟce responsible for leading Federal invesƟgaƟons of cybersecurity 
intrusions and aƩacks carried out against public and private targets by criminals, overseas adversaries, and terrorists. 
The FBI’s capabiliƟes and resources for handling cybersecurity-related issues include a Cyber Division, globally 
deployable Cyber AcƟon Teams, and partnerships with Federal, state, and local law enforcement, and cybersecurity 
organizaƟons.15 
13FISMA Annual Report to Congress FY2016 hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/brieﬁng-room/presidenƟal-acƟons/related-
omb-material/fy_2016_ﬁsma_report%20to_congress_oﬃcial_release_march_10_2017.pdf 
14PresidenƟal Policy DirecƟve 41 – United States Cyber Incident CoordinaƟon hƩps://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-
oﬃce/2016/07/26/presidenƟal-policy-direcƟve-united-states-cyber-incident 
15FISMA Annual Report to Congress FY2016 hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/brieﬁng-room/presidenƟal-acƟons/related- 
omb-material/fy_2016_ﬁsma_report%20to_congress_oﬃcial_release_march_10_2017.pdf

--- Página 24 ---
24 
1.3 
  
FY Q1 
FY Q2 
FY Q3 
FY Q4 
EsƟmated 
Deadline 
January
April 
July 
October 
 ReporƟng 
Q1 CIO FISMA  
ReporƟng 
Annual HVA  
ReporƟng 
Q2 CIO FISMA 
ReporƟng 
Q3 CIO FISMA 
ReporƟng 
Annual CIO FISMA  
ReporƟng 
Annual IG FISMA  
ReporƟng 
Annual Senior Agency 
Oﬃcial for Privacy (SAOP) 
FISMA ReporƟng 
Responsible 
ParƟes 
 CFO Act Agencies 
(required) 
Small agencies 
(opƟonal) 
 All Civilian 
Agencies 
  
 CFO Act 
Agencies 
(required) 
 Small agen-
cies (opƟonal) 
 All Civilian Agencies 
Annual Reporting Schedule 
REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS 
ANNUAL REPORTING OVERVIEW 
Under FISMA, agencies are responsible for conducƟng annual and periodic evaluaƟons of their informaƟon security 
systems and submiƫng reports to DHS. ReporƟng metrics for the coming ﬁscal year are released in Q4. Current met-
rics for CIO, IG, and SAOP reporƟng can be found on the DHS website, along with submission instrucƟons.

--- Página 25 ---
25 
1.3 
REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS 
FOCUS ON: FISMA METRICS AND OMB RISK ASSESSMENTS 
FISMA Metrics 
Each year, three sets of FISMA metrics are developed and used to evaluate the performance of agency cybersecurity 
and privacy programs.  
1. The FISMA CIO metrics are developed by OMB and DHS in close coordinaƟon with members of the CIO and CISO 
CommuniƟes and assess the degree to which agencies have implemented certain cybersecurity-related policies 
and capabiliƟes. CFO Act agencies report this informaƟon on a quarterly basis, and non-CFO Act agencies report 
this informaƟon twice annually.  
2. The FISMA Inspector General (IG) metrics are developed by the Council for Inspectors General on Integrity and 
Eﬃciency, in collaboraƟon with OMB and DHS, and are used to provide the independent assessment required 
under FISMA.  
3. The FISMA Senior Accountable Oﬃcial for Privacy (SAOP) metrics are used to assess the maturity of agency priva-
cy programs. Both the FISMA IG and FISMA SAOP metrics are collected on an annual basis and, along with the 
fourth quarter FISMA CIO metrics, are reported in the Annual FISMA Report.  
OMB Risk Assessments 
Following the release of EO 13800, OMB was required to conduct an assessment of agency cybersecurity risk man-
agement.  
OMB designed an assessment using, in part, FISMA CIO and FISMA IG metrics to provide a high-level view of the de-
gree to which agencies were managing their risk as measured by their implementaƟon of various cybersecurity tools. 
The assessments have been conducted on a quarterly basis since. 
The process is being scaled down and IG metrics are being removed as part of a metrics overhaul process iniƟated by 
the Report to the President on the ModernizaƟon of Federal IT. 
CFO Act agencies can sƟll expect quarterly Risk Management Assessments and non-CFO Act agencies can sƟll expect 
twice annual assessments. 
16US-CERT Federal Incident NoƟﬁcaƟon Guidelines. Pg. 1. hƩps://www.us-cert.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/publicaƟons/Federal_Incident_NoƟﬁcaƟon_Guidelines.pdf

--- Página 26 ---
26 
1.3 
DEFINITIONS: BREACH VS. MAJOR INCIDENT 
A breach is deﬁned as the loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisiƟon, or any 
similar occurrence where (1) a person other than an authorized user accesses or potenƟally accesses PII, or (2) an 
authorized user accesses PII for an unauthorized purpose.  
A major incident is any incident that is likely to result in demonstrable harm to the naƟonal security interests, for-
eign relaƟons, the economy of the United States; or to the public conﬁdence, civil liberƟes, or public health and safe-
ty of the American people. 
While agencies should assess each breach on a case-by-case basis to determine whether it meets the deﬁniƟon of a 
major incident, an unauthorized modiﬁcaƟon of, unauthorized deleƟon of, unauthorized exﬁltraƟon of, or unauthor-
ized access to 100,000 or more individuals’ PII automaƟcally consƟtutes a major incident. 
Pursuant to PPD-41, if an incident is a major incident, it is also a "signiﬁcant cyber incident". Thus, a major incident 
as deﬁned above will also trigger the coordinaƟon mechanisms outlined in PPD-41 and potenƟally require parƟcipa-
Ɵon and acƟons from a Cyber Uniﬁed CoordinaƟon Group. 
To further determine if a breach qualiﬁes as a major incident, agencies should use the exisƟng incident management 
process established in NIST 800-61 and are encouraged to use the US-CERT NaƟonal Cybersecurity Incident Scoring 
System (NCISS).  
x High Value Assets Annual ReporƟng – OMB issued M-17-09 to provide government-wide guidance for agen-
cies on idenƟfying, prioriƟzing, and reporƟng their high value assets (HVAs). All Federal agencies are responsi-
ble for keeping their internal HVA lists up-to-date. All CFO Act agencies are required to report all of their HVAs, 
including a prioriƟzed top ten list, to DHS on an annual basis. 
x Budget Cycle – As agencies put together their budgets, the CISO is responsible for processing and submiƫng 
requests for funding and other budget-related materials for informaƟon security. Federal agencies submit ini-
Ɵal budget requests to OMB for review in the early fall, oOen in September, with the President’s ﬁnal budget 
being due by early February. Agencies must be prepared for the OMB “passback” process if any  
REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS 
16The Federal Cybersecurity Workforce Assessment Act is contained in the Consolidated AppropriaƟons Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-113)  
See pages 735-737 at hƩps://www.congress.gov/114/plaws/publ113/PLAW-114publ113.pdf 
OTHER REPORTING 
x Breach ReporƟng – OMB requires agencies to report all privacy incidents to the US-CERT within one hour of 
discovering the incident. This requirement applies to “informaƟon security incidents, where the conﬁdenƟality, 
integrity, or availability of a Federal informaƟon system of a civilian, ExecuƟve Branch agency is potenƟally 
compromised.”16 The procedures for these reports can be found in the US-CERT Federal Incident NoƟﬁcaƟon 
Guidelines. The Guidelines are Ɵed to incident reporƟng and handling guidance in NIST SP 800-61. 
x Major Incident ReporƟng – FISMA requires OMB to deﬁne a major incident and directs agencies to report 
major incidents to Congress within 7 days of idenƟﬁcaƟon, and then supplement their iniƟal noƟﬁcaƟon to 
Congress with a report no later than 30 days aOer the agency discovers the breach. Agencies should comply 
with the criteria set out in the most recent OMB guidance, M-18-02, when determining whether an incident 
should be designated as major.

--- Página 27 ---
27 
1.3 
REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS 
       part of their budget needs clariﬁcaƟon or revision aOer its iniƟal submission. OMB issues detailed annual 
budget guidance to agencies in the form of Circular A-11 and accompanying memos, and agencies have inter-
nal policies that detail how exactly their budget is developed and what constraints are put on CISOs in their 
requests. Because budgets must be planned two years in advance, CISOs must be aware of new guidance and 
be prepared to jusƟfy budgetary decisions and plans. 
x
GAO ReporƟng – The GAO conducts regular assessments of agencies’ informaƟon security programs. This re-
porƟng is usually Ɵed to speciﬁc requests from Congress. GAO may also request materials collected by Inspec-
tors General to produce their reports. 
x
Workforce reporƟng – As part of the ongoing implementaƟon of the Federal Cybersecurity Workforce Assess-
ment Act17, agencies reported their work roles of criƟcal need to the Oﬃce of Personnel Management (OPM) 
by April 2018. OPM has issued regular guidance and updated implementaƟon Ɵmelines during this process.
x
Quarterly IDC reporƟng – Agencies are required to submit speciﬁc data to OMB in quarterly Integrated Data 
CollecƟons (IDCs). These are used to keep track of the agency progress on implementaƟon of iniƟaƟves as well 
as general data about the state of agency cybersecurity programs. The most recent IDC requirements can be 
found on MAX.

--- Página 28 ---
28 
S E C T I O N  2
 
MANAGING YOUR RISK 
ACROSS THE ENTERPRISE 
2.1 CISO Reference Section: Federal Risk Management 
2.2 The NIST Cybersecurity Framework at a Glance 
2.3 CISO Reference Section: Government-wide Requirements 
2.4 Government-wide Approaches

--- Página 29 ---
29 
2 
MANAGING YOUR 
RISK ACROSS THE 
ENTERPRISE 
INTRODUCTION
Managing Federal cybersecurity is a mulƟ-faceted challenge. CISOs must align their organizaƟons’ cybersecurity pro-
grams with an ever-changing set of government-wide policies, requirements, and standards. In this secƟon, the chal-
lenge is broken down into two parts: managing risk across the enterprise and government-wide policies and iniƟaƟves. 
In pracƟce, these parts are not disƟnct or parƟƟoned. Government-wide policies create requirements that must be 
folded into larger risk management approaches, while changing prioriƟes or threat environments within organizaƟons 
can inform government-wide policy decisions. Managing risk with one eye on the shiOing Federal cybersecurity land-
scape is the central challenge a CISO must face. 
SecƟon 2.1 begins with high-level summaries of key risk management reference publicaƟons. The CISO should lever-
age these publicaƟons when assessing and improving their organizaƟon’s cybersecurity posture.  
SecƟon 2.2 focuses on a key tool for cybersecurity risk management: The Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastruc-
ture Cybersecurity (also known as the NIST Cybersecurity Framework or CSF). The CSF can be a key part of an organiza-
Ɵon’s systemaƟc process for idenƟfying, assessing, and managing cybersecurity risk. It can also serve as the foundaƟon 
for a new cybersecurity program or a mechanism for improving an exisƟng program. 
The CSF’s core funcƟons are summarized in secƟon 2.2, but they warrant brief aƩenƟon here. The ﬁve funcƟons 
(IdenƟfy, Protect, Detect, Respond, Recover) aid an organizaƟon in expressing its management of cybersecurity risk by 
organizing informaƟon, enabling risk management decisions, addressing threats, and improving by learning from previ-
ous acƟviƟes. These core funcƟons have been incorporated into recent iteraƟons of the CIO FISMA metrics. 
SecƟon 2.3 begins with key government-wide reference policies and memos. These documents collect many of the key 
informaƟon security requirements with which Federal agencies must comply. 
SecƟon 2.4 uses a selecƟon of government-wide policies and iniƟaƟves to demonstrate how the Federal Government 
approaches cybersecurity. CISOs must be aware of how their cybersecurity programs are impacted by new require-
ments in PresidenƟal DirecƟves, OMB memos, BODs, and other documents.

--- Página 30 ---
30 
 The Cybersecurity Challenge: Part 1 
The ﬁrst challenge a CISO faces when implemenƟng Federal cybersecurity is learning their organizaƟon’s systems 
and how to manage resources to keep informaƟon secure. The CISO must learn what type of data the public has 
entrusted to the agency, what level of security is required for each system that stores that data, who can access it, 
and what should be done if it is breached or otherwise disrupted. 
NIST, with considerable input from the private sector, has produced a number of publicaƟons to help 
organizaƟons manage risk. The publicaƟons provide guidance to agencies to help them keep track of the many 
moving parts in their cybersecurity programs and prioriƟze acƟons to be taken to improve and maintain their 
agency’s cybersecurity posture. 
However, NIST publicaƟons and risk management processes must be implemented alongside changing 
government-wide requirements and iniƟaƟves, as discussed starƟng in SecƟon 2.3. 
2 
MANAGING YOUR 
RISK ACROSS THE 
ENTERPRISE

--- Página 31 ---
31 
2.1 
 
The following are high-level summaries of foundaƟonal risk management reference publicaƟons. The CISO should lev-
erage these publicaƟons when assessing and improving their organizaƟon’s cybersecurity risk posture. Federal risk 
management, as deﬁned by NIST, is implemented in partnership with DHS. It is overseen at the agency level by the 
OIG, and at the Federal level by OMB.
As government-wide authoriƟes issue new policies, updates are made to these documents (or to the guidance sup-
porƟng them) to provide consistency across the Federal Government. A more comprehensive list of policies related to 
cybersecurity can be found in the SecƟon A.2 of the appendices. 
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION:  
FEDERAL RISK 
MANAGEMENT 
Figure 1: Government-wide Policies for SecƟon 2.3

--- Página 32 ---
32 
2.1 
FIPS 199 – Standards for Security CategorizaƟon of Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon System 
x Mandates that all Federal informaƟon and informaƟon systems be given a security categorizaƟon to be used in 
conjuncƟon with vulnerability and threat informaƟon when assessing the risk to an organizaƟon or system. 
The security categorizaƟon of an informaƟon system is determined through an analysis of the types of infor-
maƟon residing on that system. 
x FIPS 199 also deﬁnes three potenƟal impact levels on an organizaƟon or individual should there be a breach of 
security: loss of conﬁdenƟality, integrity, or availability. The applicaƟon of these deﬁniƟons must take place 
both within the context of each organizaƟon and of the overall naƟonal interest. The document explains the 
relaƟonship between potenƟal impact levels, informaƟon types,18 and security categorizaƟon.  
x The standards also promote consistent reporƟng to OMB and Congress on the adequacy and eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies, procedures, and pracƟces.19 
FIPS 200 – Minimum Security Requirements for Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems 
InformaƟon Systems 
x Mandates minimum security requirements for informaƟon and informaƟon systems supporƟng the execuƟve 
agencies of the Federal Government. 
x Mandates a risk-based process for selecƟng the baseline security controls necessary to saƟsfy the minimum 
security requirements which agencies tailor to their environment.20
x Ties FIPS 199 to supporƟng NIST special publicaƟons to create a risk management program that CISOs can lev-
erage in a consistent and comprehensive manner across agencies. 
NIST 800-37 – Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal InformaƟon Systems 
x Provides guidance for applying the Risk Management Framework (RMF; see Figure 1) to Federal informaƟon 
systems. The six steps of the RMF are: 1) security categorizaƟon (FIPS 199), 2) security control selecƟon (NIST 
SP 800-53), 3) security control implementaƟon, 4) security control assessment, 5) informaƟon system authori-
zaƟon, and 6) security control monitoring. The RMF forms the risk lifecycle for Federal informaƟon systems 
from concept to reƟrement. 
x Applying the RMF within enterprises links risk management processes at the informaƟon system level to those 
at the organizaƟon level through a risk execuƟve funcƟon and establishes lines of responsibility and accounta-
bility for security controls deployed within organizaƟonal informaƟon systems and inherited by those systems 
(i.e., common controls).21 
18See NIST 800-60 Vol 1 – Guide for Mapping Types of InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems to Security Categories hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/
nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublicaƟon800-60v1r1.pdf and Vol 2 – hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/
nistspecialpublicaƟon800-60v2r1.pdf 
19FIPS PUB 199 – Standards for Security CategorizaƟon of Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/
NIST.FIPS.199.pdf  
20FIPS PUB 200 – Minimum Security Requirements for Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/ 
NIST.FIPS.200.pdf  
21NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-37 – Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal InformaƟon Systems. Pg. 4. hƩp:// 
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-37r1.pdf  
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION:  
FEDERAL RISK 
MANAGEMENT

--- Página 33 ---
33 
2.1 
 
22Computer Security Resource Center – Risk Management 
          hƩps://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Risk-Management/Risk-Management-Framework-Quick-Start-Guides 
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION:  
FEDERAL RISK 
MANAGEMENT 
NIST 800-53 – Security and Privacy Controls for InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons
x Provides a catalog of potenƟal security and privacy controls for Federal informaƟon systems. The controls ad-
dress diverse requirements derived from mission and business needs, laws, ExecuƟve Orders, direcƟves, regu-
laƟons, policies, standards, and guidelines.  
x Describes how to develop specialized sets of controls, or overlays, tailored for an organizaƟon’s speciﬁc needs. 
The consolidated catalog of controls addresses security and privacy from a funcƟonality perspecƟve (i.e., the 
strength of funcƟons and mechanisms) and an assurance perspecƟve (i.e., the measure of conﬁdence in the 
security or privacy capability).23 Controls are meant to be applied within the context of an organizaƟon and pro-
vide a means to document deviaƟons from Federal baselines. 
x Controls also map to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (discussed in detail in SecƟon 2.2).

--- Página 34 ---
34 
 
2.1 
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION:  
FEDERAL RISK 
MANAGEMENT 
Figure 2: Six steps of the Risk Management Framework22 
22Computer Security Resource Center – Risk Management 
                 hƩps://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Risk-Management/Risk-Management-Framework-Quick-Start-Guides 
23NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-53 – Security and Privacy Controls for InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons, Revision 5. Pg. 4. hƩps://          
csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/publicaƟons/sp/800-53/rev-5/draO/documents/sp800-53r5-draO.pdf

--- Página 35 ---
35 
2.2 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
The Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity (also known as the NIST Cybersecurity 
Framework or CSF) is a tool originally developed for the private sector that agencies must implement to manage 
cybersecurity risk in accordance with ExecuƟve Order 13800.24 The CSF can serve as the foundaƟon for a new 
cybersecurity program or a mechanism for improving an exisƟng program. 
An organizaƟon can use the CSF as a key part of its systemaƟc process for idenƟfying, assessing, and managing 
cybersecurity risk. It can help an organizaƟon determine which acƟviƟes are most important to criƟcal service 
delivery, prioriƟze expenditures, and maximize the impact of investment. The CSF is designed to complement exisƟng 
business and cybersecurity operaƟons. It provides a means of expressing cybersecurity requirements to business 
partners and customers and can help idenƟfy gaps in an organizaƟon’s cybersecurity pracƟces. It also provides a 
general set of processes for considering privacy and civil liberƟes implicaƟons in the context of a cybersecurity 
program. 
The CSF consists of three parts: the CSF Core, the CSF Proﬁle, and the CSF ImplementaƟon Tiers. The CSF Core 
(discussed in detail below) is a set of cybersecurity acƟviƟes, outcomes, and informaƟve references that are common 
across organizaƟons, providing detailed guidance for developing individual organizaƟonal proﬁles. CSF Proﬁles help 
the organizaƟon align its cybersecurity acƟviƟes with its business requirements, risk tolerances, and resources. The 
CSF ImplementaƟon Tiers provide a mechanism for organizaƟons to view and understand the characterisƟcs of their 
approach to managing cybersecurity risk. 
ImplementaƟon of the CSF25 involves aligning organizaƟon-speciﬁc informaƟon with the funcƟons, categories, and 
subcategories detailed in the CSF Core (illustrated in Figure 3 and described below). Figure 4 describes a common 
ﬂow of informaƟon and decisions at the execuƟve, business/process, and implementaƟon/operaƟons levels within an 
organizaƟon.  
OMB and DHS have organized the CIO FISMA metrics around the Cybersecurity Framework, leveraging it as a 
standard for managing and reducing cybersecurity risks and using the core funcƟons to organize the informaƟon 
agencies must submit.  
24ExecuƟve Order 13800 – Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and CriƟcal Infrastructure states: “EﬀecƟve immediately, each agency head shall  
use The Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity (the Framework) developed by the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and 
Technology, or any successor document, to manage the agency’s cybersecurity risk.” 
25NISTIR 8170 – The Cybersecurity Framework: ImplementaƟon Guidance for Federal Agencies provides detailed guidance, use cases, and supplementary  
informaƟon to help agencies use the CSF. hƩps://csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/publicaƟons/nisƟr/8170/draO/documents/nisƟr8170-draO.pdf  
Managing Risk with the CSF

--- Página 36 ---
36 
Figure 3: Cybersecurity Framework funcƟons and category unique idenƟﬁers26 
26NIST – Cybersecurity Framework hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
2.2 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 37 ---
37 
2.2 
 
As a whole, the CSF consolidates mulƟple approaches to cybersecurity by assembling standards, guidelines, and prac-
Ɵces that are working eﬀecƟvely in industry. What the CSF does not provide is an organizaƟonal change process. It is a 
model from which change can be tailored and implemented, but it does not tell organizaƟons what speciﬁc acƟons 
must be taken to enact that change.28 
Figure 4: NoƟonal InformaƟon and Decision Flows within an OrganizaƟon27 
27Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Pg. 12. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf 
28Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Pg. 1. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 38 ---
38 
The CSF Core 
2.2 
The CSF Core is divided into ﬁve funcƟons which aid an organizaƟon in expressing its management of cybersecurity 
risk by organizing informaƟon, enabling risk management decisions, addressing threats, and learning from previous 
acƟviƟes. The ﬁve funcƟons and their basic objecƟves are: 
xIdenƟfy – Develop the organizaƟonal understanding to manage cybersecurity risk to systems, assets, data, and 
capabiliƟes. 
xProtect – Develop and implement the appropriate safeguards to ensure delivery of criƟcal infrastructure 
services. 
xDetect – Develop and implement the appropriate acƟviƟes to idenƟfy the occurrence of a cybersecurity event. 
xRespond – Develop and implement the appropriate acƟviƟes to take acƟon regarding a detected cybersecurity 
event.
xRecover – Develop and implement the appropriate acƟviƟes to maintain plans for resilience and to restore any 
capabiliƟes or services that were impaired due to a cybersecurity event. 
Each of the ﬁve funcƟons are divided into categories which are accompanied by broad objecƟves. The categories are 
then divided into subcategories with more speciﬁc objecƟves. Agencies must determine whether or to what extent 
these objecƟves have been met and prioriƟze their acƟons accordingly. 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 39 ---
39 
2.2 
The actual security operaƟons involved in meeƟng the objecƟves in the CSF will diﬀer from agency to agency. Because 
every agency must analyze its own systems and incorporate its own organizaƟonal prioriƟes, there is no one-size-ﬁts-
all process for risk management.  
In the following highlights, each CSF Core funcƟon will be matched with internal agency policies. The goal of this is to 
show how internal policies can be designed to achieve speciﬁc objecƟves at the subcategory level of the CSF Core. 
While creaƟng policy and operaƟonally achieving outcomes are diﬀerent things, a CISO can examine the policies that 
exist within their organizaƟon to assess strengths and recognize gaps.  
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
29Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Pg. 19. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
NOTE: The internal agency policies used as examples in this secƟon are purely illustraƟve and should not be copied 
wholesale by organizaƟons in place of detailed risk analysis. They are included to give new CISOs a starƟng point 
from which to develop policy from scratch when appropriate, tailored to their organizaƟon’s needs. 
The acƟviƟes described in the highlights below are complex and diﬀerent for each organizaƟon. Having direcƟves in 
place is only the beginning of the actual work of cybersecurity management.  
NIST 800-53 controls, to which the CSF is Ɵed, are used during Oﬃce of the Inspector General audits mandated by 
FISMA. The controls and how to assign them to systems is discussed in detail in NIST 800-53 and reinforced as a step 
in the Risk Management Framework process.  
However, having policies in place that address controls (and saƟsfy high-level audits) is only eﬀecƟve if the required 
resources are in place for those controls to be executed. UlƟmately, risk management is about ensuring resources 
can be used eﬀecƟvely in accordance with policy, not just that policy is in place.

--- Página 40 ---
40 
2.2 
Identify (ID) Function Highlights 
The acƟviƟes in the IdenƟfy funcƟon are foundaƟonal for eﬀecƟve use of the CSF. Understanding the business con-
text, the resources that support criƟcal funcƟons, and the related cybersecurity risks enables an organizaƟon to fo-
cus and prioriƟze its eﬀorts, consistent with its risk management strategy and business needs.  
Categories within this funcƟon include: Asset Management (highlighted below); Business Environment; Governance; 
Risk Assessment (highlighted below); and Risk Management Strategy. 
The categories highlighted below demonstrate the connecƟons from example agency policies to the NIST 800-53 
controls they implement to the CSF FuncƟons, Categories, and Subcategories they saƟsfy for the purposes of 
assessing risk.  
NOTE: These are only highlights. They do not imply that these categories are more important than the others or that 
the example agency’s policies represent a transferrable or paradigmaƟc approach to risk management. 
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT (ID.AM) 
ID.AM Desired Outcome: The data, personnel, devices, systems, and faciliƟes that enable the organizaƟon to achieve 
business purposes are idenƟﬁed and managed consistent with their relaƟve importance to business objecƟves and 
the organizaƟon’s risk strategy.30 
The subcategories within ID.AM provide more speciﬁc objecƟves. Subcategories ID.AM-1 and ID.AM-2 are about 
inventorying the “physical devices and systems” and the “soOware plaƞorms and applicaƟons” within the 
organizaƟon, respecƟvely. The example agency’s Secure Asset Management Policy assigns the maintenance of an 
enterprise-wide inventory of components on the network infrastructure to infrastructure managers. The speciﬁc 
controls involved in this process are Ɵed to NIST 800-53 (in this case, the control code is CM-8). It is important to note 
that the example agency policy does not menƟon the ID.AM categorizaƟon because the actual control in use appears 
in NIST 800-53. In the context of a risk assessment of its cybersecurity program, however, the example agency meets 
the objecƟves of the ID.AM-1 and ID.AM-2 subcategories at the policy level. 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
30Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
31Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf

--- Página 41 ---
41 
RISK ASSESSMENT (ID.RA) 
ID.RA Desired Outcome: The organizaƟon understands the cybersecurity risk to organizaƟonal operaƟons (including 
mission, funcƟons, image, or reputaƟon), organizaƟonal assets, and individuals.31
The subcategories within ID.RA provide speciﬁc objecƟves that encourage agencies to use “threats, vulnerabiliƟes, 
likelihoods, and impacts” to determine risk (subcategory ID.RA-5). The example agency’s Risk Management Policy 
directs InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers (ISSOs) to conduct risk assessments on “all idenƟﬁed weaknesses” with 
the help of updated content on those weaknesses provided by System Owners (SOs). These acƟons are Ɵed to each 
system’s Plan of AcƟon & Milestones (POA&M) as noted in NIST 800-53 control CA-5. The Risk Assessment 
requirement is also Ɵed to NIST 800-53’s controls, in this case RA-3 and several others. The example agency meets the 
objecƟves of the ID.RA-5 (and the other subcategories within the Risk Assessment and Risk Management categories) 
at the policy level by having a risk assessment procedure in place. 
2.2 
It is no accident that the CSF includes risk assessment and risk management as desired outcomes within the IdenƟfy 
funcƟon, reinforcing the fact that the acƟviƟes found under IdenƟfy provide the foundaƟon for the other CSF 
funcƟons. 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 42 ---
42 
2.2 
Protect (PR) Function Highlights 
The Protect funcƟon supports the ability to limit or contain the impact of a potenƟal cybersecurity event.  
Categories within this funcƟon include: Access Control (highlighted below); Awareness and Training; Data Security; 
InformaƟon ProtecƟon Processes and Procedures; Maintenance (highlighted below); and ProtecƟve Technology. 
The categories highlighted below demonstrate the connecƟons from the example agency’s policies to the NIST 800-53 
controls they implement to the CSF FuncƟons, Categories, and Subcategories they saƟsfy for the purposes of assessing 
risk.  
NOTE: These are only highlights. They do not imply that these categories are more important than the others or that 
the example agency’s policies represent a transferrable or paradigmaƟc approach to risk management. 
 
IDENTITY MANAGEMENT AND ACCESS CONTROL (PR.AC) 
PR.AC Desired Outcome: Access to assets and associated faciliƟes is limited to authorized users, processes, or devices, 
and to authorized acƟviƟes and transacƟons.32 
The subcategories within PR.AC provide more speciﬁc objecƟves. The example agency’s Access Control Policy assigns 
responsibility for controls in NIST 800-53 to various managers, supervisors, and SOs in accordance with their posiƟons 
and the network components they oversee. Each of the roles is Ɵed directly to a NIST control (from AC-2 to AC-21) 
covering many of the Access Control objecƟves under the Protect funcƟon of the CSF. Subcategory PR.AC-3 (“Remote 
access is managed”), for example, is assigned to SOs and Ɵed to NIST control AC-17. Because responsibility for these 
objecƟves is clearly delegated in policy, the example agency has met the objecƟve for that subcategory at the policy 
level.  
 
MAINTENANCE (PR.MA)  
PR.MA Desired Outcome: Maintenance and repairs of industrial control and informaƟon system components is 
performed consistent with policies and procedures.33 
The subcategories within PR.MA provide more speciﬁc objecƟves. The ﬁrst of those objecƟves, PR.MA-1, asks 
agencies to assess whether “maintenance and repair of organizaƟonal assets is performed and logged in a Ɵmely 
manner, with approved and controlled tools.” The example agency’s System Maintenance Policy requires that account 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
32Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP 
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
33Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf

--- Página 43 ---
43 
Protect (PR) Function Highlights 
2.2 
managers and SOs have their maintenance responsibiliƟes laid out in policy and connected to government-wide 
controls. NIST 800-53 lays out update schedules for updaƟng system maintenance policy and procedures (MA-1) and 
actually performing system maintenance (MA-2 and MA-3). The example agency’s policy Ɵes to these controls, which 
means that potenƟal risk from improper or incomplete system maintenance has been managed. However, just like 
the Access Control Policy above, this policy must be reviewed regularly to ensure that new systems and personnel are 
incorporated and aware of their responsibiliƟes. 
Given that systems and personnel are constantly changing, policies must be reviewed regularly to ensure that 
suﬃcient resources are being devoted to the Protect funcƟon’s objecƟves. Agencies should reassess risks when 
major system changes are made or when new personnel are brought in, which is why training is also a key 
component of the Protect funcƟon. 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 44 ---
44 
2.2 
Detect (DE) Function Highlights 
The Detect funcƟon enables Ɵmely discovery of cybersecurity events.  
Categories within this funcƟon include: Anomalies and Events; Security ConƟnuous Monitoring (highlighted below); 
and DetecƟon Processes. 
The categories highlighted below demonstrate the connecƟons from the example agency’s policies to the NIST 800-53 
controls they implement to the CSF FuncƟons, Categories, and Subcategories they saƟsfy for the purposes of assessing 
risk.  
NOTE: These are only highlights. They do not imply that these categories are more important than the others or that 
the example agency’s policies represent a transferrable or paradigmaƟc approach to risk management. 
 
SECURITY CONTINUOUS MONITORING (DE.CM) - CM POLICY AND MALICIOUS CODE 
DE.CM Desired Outcome: The informaƟon system and assets are monitored at discrete intervals to idenƟfy cyberse-
curity events and verify the eﬀecƟveness of protecƟve measures.34 
For the subcategories within DE.CM, two diﬀerent example agency policies can be used to demonstrate approaches to 
general and speciﬁc threats, respecƟvely. First, the example agency’s ConƟnuous Monitoring Policy fulﬁlls the objec-
Ɵves in subcategory DE.CM-1 (“the network is monitored to detect potenƟal cybersecurity events”). It also fulﬁlls ob-
jecƟves in the subcategory for DetecƟon Processes, DE.DP-1 (“roles and responsibiliƟes for detecƟon are well deﬁned 
to ensure accountability”). These objecƟves connect to government-wide policies that require each agency to have a 
CM strategy in place as well as NIST 800-53 controls (CA-7 for CM and AR-4 for Privacy).  
 
 
 
 
Second, the example agency has a policy speciﬁcally for Malicious Code that assigns scanning responsibiliƟes to its 
Security OperaƟons Center (SOC). Not every agency has a parƟƟoned SOC, so this kind of policy must be tailored to 
reﬂect the lines of authority within each agency. In the example agency’s case, the policy fulﬁlls DE.CM-4.(“malicious 
code is detected”) by tying to the NIST 800-53 controls that address this type of threat (SI-3, SI-8, and SI-16). 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
34Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/ 
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf

--- Página 45 ---
45 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
2.2 
DetecƟon processes must constantly evolve with the threat landscape, and this means that new government-wide 
iniƟaƟves can necessitate updates to CM policy. The need to regularly review internal CM policies and strategy rein-
forces the ongoing nature the Detect funcƟon, and of risk management as a whole. 
Second, the example agency has a policy speciﬁcally for Malicious Code that assigns scanning responsibiliƟes to its Se-
curity OperaƟons Center (SOC). Not every agency has a parƟƟoned SOC, so this kind of policy must be tailored to re-
ﬂect the lines of authority within each agency. In the example agency’s case, the policy fulﬁlls DE.CM-4.(“malicious 
code is detected”) by tying to the NIST 800-53 controls that address this type of threat (SI-3, SI-8, and SI-16). 
Detect (DE) Function Highlights

--- Página 46 ---
46 
2.2 
Respond (RS) Function Highlights 
The Respond funcƟon supports the ability to contain the impact of a potenƟal cybersecurity event.  
Categories within this funcƟon include: Response Planning; CommunicaƟons (highlighted below); Analysis; 
MiƟgaƟon; and Improvements. 
The categories highlighted below demonstrate the connecƟons from the example agency’s policies to the NIST 800-53 
controls they implement to the CSF FuncƟons, Categories, and Subcategories they saƟsfy for the purposes of 
assessing risk.  
NOTE: These are only highlights. They do not imply that these categories are more important than the others or that 
the example agency’s policies represent a transferrable or paradigmaƟc approach to risk management. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS (RS.CO) 
RS.CO Desired Outcome: Response acƟviƟes are coordinated with internal and external stakeholders, as appropriate, 
to include external support from law enforcement agencies.35 
The subcategories within RS.CO provide more speciﬁc objecƟves. The ﬁrst of those objecƟves, RS.CO-1, asks agencies 
to assess whether “[p]personnel know their roles and order of operaƟons when a response is needed.” The example 
agency’s Incident Response Policy assigns all agency personnel the responsibility to report suspected incidents to the 
agency’s SOC. It then details acƟons that must be taken by the SOC and other personnel to respond to the potenƟal 
threat. As with the policies discussed above, the agency Ɵes its procedures to controls in NIST 800-53, which 
recommend regular updates to incident response policies. The controls include IR-1 through IR-7 for policy, 
procedure, and reporƟng. Also included is the control SE-2 for acƟons related to privacy. In the case of incident 
response, agencies must also have a process for reporƟng to government-wide authoriƟes like US-CERT. 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE  
35Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
The Respond funcƟon is not just about demonstraƟng that during-incident responsibiliƟes are assigned on paper, it is 
about knowing that the proper execuƟon of incident response can be anƟcipated and expected. Government-wide 
authoriƟes are set up to help agencies review their acƟons during an incident, both in the interest of the agency 
itself and the larger Federal cybersecurity landscape.

--- Página 47 ---
47 
2.2 
Recover (RC) Function Highlights 
The Recover funcƟon supports Ɵmely recovery to normal operaƟons to reduce the impact from a cybersecurity 
event.  
Categories within this funcƟon include: Recovery Planning (highlighted below); Improvements; and CommunicaƟons. 
The categories highlighted below demonstrate the connecƟons from the example agency’s policies to the NIST 800-53 
controls they implement to the CSF FuncƟons, Categories, and Subcategories they saƟsfy for the purposes of 
assessing risk.  
NOTE: These are only highlights. They do not imply that these categories are more important than the others or that 
the example agency’s policies represent a transferrable or paradigmaƟc approach to risk management.
 
RECOVERY PLANNING (RC.RP) 
RC.RP Desired Outcome: Recovery processes and procedures are executed and maintained to ensure Ɵmely 
restoraƟon of systems or assets aﬀected by cybersecurity events.36 
The subcategories within RC.RP provide more speciﬁc objecƟves. Subcategory RC.RP-1 asks agencies to ensure that 
their “[r]recovery plan is executed during or aOer an event.” The example agency’s ConƟngency Planning Policy sets 
expectaƟons for Infrastructure Managers and SOs to conduct Disaster Recovery (DR) tests, Business Impact Analyses 
(BIAs), and ConƟngency Plan (CP) tesƟng for components under their control. These acƟons are Ɵed to NIST 800-53 
controls for ConƟngency Planning, speciﬁcally CP-1 through CP-10.  
35Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. Table 2: Framework Core. hƩps://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf  
Risk management is not eﬀecƟve unless it is taking all systems and components into account. This means that a CISO 
must understand the potenƟal impact of damage to any of these components and ensure personnel are aware of 
their roles to miƟgate damage if an incident does occur. The Recover funcƟon can help increase awareness of poten-
Ɵal impact from the SO level all the way up to the execuƟve level. Therefore, Recover must be constantly considered 
in conjuncƟon with all the other funcƟons, not just once a threat is idenƟﬁed. 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 48 ---
48 
2.2 
CSF Core: Takeaways 
x The CSF Core can help an agency determine which steps would improve their cybersecurity posture, and in 
what order.  
x The cybersecurity acƟviƟes, outcomes, and informaƟve references laid out in the Core funcƟons are common 
across organizaƟons, but the CSF is a tailorable model for organizaƟonal change, not a change process in itself.  
x The next step aOer comparing their policies against NIST 800-53 controls and CSF desired outcomes is for 
agencies to use the other resources in this handbook and the tools and services oﬀered by government-wide 
organizaƟons to constantly improve their cybersecurity posture.  
x Success will not look idenƟcal for each organizaƟon, so CISOs must determine what acƟons would make their 
organizaƟon’s informaƟon appropriately secure. 
 
THE NIST 
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK AT A 
GLANCE

--- Página 49 ---
49 
2 
The Cybersecurity Challenge: Part 2 
Several Ɵmes in SecƟons 2.1 and 2.2, risk management is referred to as an “ongoing” endeavor. This is due to the 
cybersecurity landscape constantly changing and, therefore, the comprehensive list of related government-wide re-
quirements constantly changing with it.  
A challenge every organizaƟon faces is that as these comprehensive requirements change, they must be mapped to 
exisƟng internal agency policies to idenƟfy the gaps in the organizaƟon’s cybersecurity posture and then update 
those policies as appropriate.  
New threats can result in requirements that cause agencies to shiO resources, creaƟng vulnerabiliƟes. New reporƟng 
requirements can draw personnel away from other cybersecurity tasks. New iniƟaƟves can change organizaƟonal 
prioriƟes and render previous risk assessments outdated. Managing risk with one eye on the shiOing Federal cyberse-
curity landscape is the central challenge a CISO must face. 
MANAGING YOUR 
RISK ACROSS THE 
ENTERPRISE

--- Página 50 ---
50 
2.3 
The following is a list of key government-wide reference policies and memos. These documents collect many of the 
key informaƟon security requirements with which Federal agencies must comply. 
A more comprehensive list of policies related to cybersecurity can be found in the SecƟon A.2 of the appendices. 
AddiƟonal policies and related resources can be found on OMB.gov and DHS.gov. 
 
OMB Circular A-130 – Managing InformaƟon as a Strategic Resource 
x Establishes general policy for Federal informaƟon technology. The policy secƟon of the document lays out 
agency responsibiliƟes for major areas of IT and establishes government-wide responsibiliƟes for key 
organizaƟons.  
x Appendices include responsibiliƟes for protecƟng Federal informaƟon resources and managing personally 
idenƟﬁable informaƟon (PII).  
x Useful as a consolidated list of requirements and policies for reference but does not necessarily contain all 
requirements related to any given IT area. Agencies are responsible for implemenƟng the requirements in the 
Circular and those in other OMB policies and guidance in a mutually consistent fashion.37 
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION: 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
REQUIREMENTS 
Figure 1: Government-wide Policies for SecƟon 2.3

--- Página 51 ---
51 
2.3 
ExecuƟve Order 13800 – Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and CriƟcal Infrastructure
xDirects agencies to implement The Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity (NIST 
Cybersecurity Framework or CSF). 
OMB M-18-02 – Fiscal Year 2017-2018 Guidance on Federal InformaƟon Security and Privacy Management 
Requirements 
xContains the most recent FISMA reporƟng guidance and deadlines. It describes the processes for Federal 
agencies to report to OMB and, where applicable, DHS.  
xEach ﬁscal year, OMB releases a similar memo that establishes new requirements and consolidates 
requirements from prior OMB annual FISMA guidance to ensure consistent, government-wide performance and 
agency adopƟon of best pracƟces.38 
OMB M-17-25 – ReporƟng Guidance for ExecuƟve Order on Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks 
and CriƟcal Infrastructure 
xProvides implemenƟng guidance for acƟons required in ExecuƟve Order 13800.  
xRequires agencies to create an acƟon plan for implemenƟng the CSF.39 
xAppendices lay out risk assessment procedures and summarize CSF’s Core funcƟons. 
OMB M-17-12 – Preparing for and Responding to a Breach of Personally IdenƟﬁable InformaƟon  
xSets forth policy for Federal agencies to prepare for and respond to a breach of personally idenƟﬁable 
informaƟon (PII). 
xIncludes a framework for assessing and miƟgaƟng the risk of harm to individuals potenƟally aﬀected by a 
breach. 
xProvides guidance on whether and how to provide noƟﬁcaƟon and services to aﬀected individuals. 
OMB M-17-09 – Management of Federal High Value Assets40 
xProvides government-wide guidance for agencies on idenƟfying, prioriƟzing, and reporƟng their high value 
assets (HVAs).  
xAll Federal agencies are responsible for keeping their internal HVA lists up-to-date. All CFO Act agencies are 
required to report all of their HVAs, including a prioriƟzed top ten list, to DHS on an annual basis.
OMB M-14-03 – Enhancing the Security of Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems  
xEstablishes requirements and outlines speciﬁc acƟons for agencies to follow in establishing informaƟon security 
37Circular A-130 – Managing InformaƟon as a Strategic Resource. Pg. 2. hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/circulars  
A130/a130revised.pdf 
38M-18-02 – Fiscal Year 2017-2018 Guidance on Federal InformaƟon Security and Privacy Management Requirements. Pg. 1. hƩps:/     
www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/M-18-02%20%28ﬁnal%29.pdf 
39Agency acƟon plans for CSF implementaƟon were due July 14, 2017.  
40This policy is expected to be updated in Summer 2018.  
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION: 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
REQUIREMENTS

--- Página 52 ---
52 
2.3 
Government-wide Requirements 
conƟnuous monitoring (ISCM) programs. 
xIssued as part of coordinated government-wide CDM program at DHS. 
xTies guidance to NIST 800-37, NIST 800-137, and NIST 800-53. 
OMB M-08-23 – Securing the Federal Government’s Domain Name System Infrastructure  
xEstablishes policies for deploying Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC) to all Federal informaƟon systems. 
PPD-41 – PresidenƟal Policy DirecƟve – United States Cyber Incident CoordinaƟon 
xSets forth principles governing the Federal Government’s response to any cyber incident, whether involving 
public or private sector enƟƟes. 
xEstablishes lead Federal agencies and an architecture for coordinaƟng the broader Federal Government response 
for signiﬁcant cyber incidents.  
xRequires the Department of JusƟce (DOJ) and DHS to maintain updated contact informaƟon for public use to 
assist enƟƟes aﬀected by cyber incidents in reporƟng those incidents to the proper authoriƟes. 
The US-CERT Federal Incident NoƟﬁcaƟon Guidelines  
xContains the procedures for reporƟng Privacy Incidents to US-CERT.  
xThe Guidelines are Ɵed to incident reporƟng and handling guidance in NIST SP 800-61. The deﬁniƟons and 
procedures for major incidents can be found in M-18-02.  
CISO REFERENCE 
SECTION: 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
REQUIREMENTS

--- Página 53 ---
53 
2.4 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES 
The following is a selecƟon of policies and iniƟaƟves that demonstrate how the Federal Government approaches cy-
bersecurity. CISOs must be aware of how their cybersecurity programs are impacted by new and exisƟng require-
ments in PresidenƟal DirecƟves, OMB memos, BODs, and other documents.  
Examples of Government-wide Initiatives 
Continuous Diagnostics Mitigation (CDM) 
The CDM program, developed at DHS, “provides a consistent, government-wide set of informaƟon security conƟnu-
ous monitoring (ISCM) tools to enhance the Federal Government's [sic] ability to idenƟfy and respond, in real-Ɵme or 
near real-Ɵme, to the risk of emerging cyber threats.”41 
As Figure 5 illustrates, agency-installed sensors are deployed to perform an on-going, automated search for known 
cyber ﬂaws. Results from the sensors feed into an agency dashboard that produces customized reports that alert net-
work managers to their most criƟcal cyber risks. PrioriƟzed alerts enable agencies to eﬃciently allocate resources 
based on the severity of the risk. Progress reports track results, which can be used to compare security postures 
among agency networks. Summary informaƟon feeds into a Federal enterprise-level dashboard to inform and provide 
situaƟonal awareness into the cybersecurity risk posture across the Federal Government. 
41M-14-03: Enhancing the Security of Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems. Pg. 2. hƩps://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/
default/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2014/m-14-03.pdf  
42ConƟnuous DiagnosƟcs and MiƟgaƟon hƩps://www.dhs.gov/cdm  
Figure 5: CDM Process42

--- Página 54 ---
54 
2.4 
Continuous Diagnostics Mitigation (CDM) (CONT)
DHS and GSA work together to help agencies with the acquisiƟon of CDM tools even as those tools evolve and present 
opportuniƟes for improvement. The CDM Dynamic and Evolving Federal Enterprise Network Defense (DEFEND) con-
tract is the next step in the evoluƟon of CDM toward ongoing authorizaƟon and cloud security. CDM DEFEND supports 
the transformaƟon of the system authorizaƟon process by developing and implemenƟng more eﬃcient ongoing as-
sessment and authorizaƟon across the Federal enterprise. The new contract is anƟcipated to support, among other 
acƟviƟes, enhanced cloud and mobile cybersecurity, a more standardized approach for incident response across the 
Federal enterprise environment, and more robust boundary protecƟons aligned with the ongoing IT modernizaƟon 
eﬀorts. 
Government-wide service oﬀerings like CDM are oOen Ɵed to larger Federal cybersecurity strategies and iniƟaƟves. To 
fully implement the CDM program and create consistent government-wide ISCM approach, OMB issued M-14-03. The 
memo required agencies to develop a ISCM strategy according to speciﬁc government-wide standards and included a 
detailed list of acƟons agencies had to take within established Ɵmelines. The memo’s requirements are Ɵed to exisƟng 
NIST publicaƟons, including ones that are included in the “InformaƟve References” secƟon of the CSF Core. 
 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES

--- Página 55 ---
55 
Focus On: CDM Phases 
The CDM program is organized by phases, as idenƟﬁed in the diagram shown here and described below. 
Phase 1: "What is on the network?" 
Managing "what is on the network?" requires 
the management and control of devices 
(HWAM), soOware (SWAM), security conﬁgu-
raƟon seƫngs (CSM), and soOware vulnera-
biliƟes (VUL). 
Phase 2: "Who is on the network?" 
Managing "who is on the network?" requires 
the management and control of account/
access/managed privileges (PRIV), trust deter-
minaƟon for people granted access (TRUST), 
credenƟals and authenƟcaƟon (CRED), and 
security-related behavioral training (BEHAVE). 
These four funcƟons have signiﬁcant interde-
pendence and are thus managed together as part of Phase 2. 
Phase 3: "What is happening on the network?" 
Managing "what is happening on the network?" builds on the CDM capabiliƟes provided by "what is on the net-
work?" and "who is on the network?" These CDM capabiliƟes include network and perimeter components, host, and 
device components, data at rest and in transit, and user behavior and acƟviƟes. These capabiliƟes move beyond as-
set management to more extensive and dynamic monitoring of security controls. This includes preparing for and re-
sponding to behavior incidents, ensuring that soOware/system quality is integrated into the network/infrastructure, 
detecƟng internal acƟons and behaviors to determine who is doing what, and ﬁnally, miƟgaƟng security incidents to 
prevent propagaƟon throughout the network/infrastructure. 
Phase 4: "How is data protected?" 
CDM Phase 4 capabiliƟes support the overall CDM program goal to idenƟfy cybersecurity risks on an ongoing basis, 
prioriƟze these risks based upon potenƟal impacts, and enable cybersecurity personnel to miƟgate the most signiﬁ-
cant problems ﬁrst. 
CDM Agency and Federal Dashboards 
At the agency level, security staﬀ will be able to idenƟfy, analyze, and address priority vulnerabiliƟes. Summary data 
from each parƟcipaƟng agency's dashboard will be transmiƩed to the Federal Dashboard where the tacƟcal data will 
be used to inform strategic decision making regarding systemic cybersecurity risks across the enƟre Federal civilian 
enterprise.
2.4 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES

--- Página 56 ---
56 
2.4 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES  
High Value Assets (HVAs) 
OMB-issued policies are the most common way that changes to government-wide requirements are disseminated to 
agencies. As the threat environment and the Federal compuƟng landscape evolve, policies must be updated to ensure 
that assets are protected in a way that is commensurate with their importance. OMB issued M-17-09, to update deﬁ-
niƟons and guidance for HVAs. Memos of this type oOen contain both policy (mandatory requirements, roles and re-
sponsibiliƟes for key organizaƟons, lines of authority) and guidance (approaches for implementaƟon). In the case of 
this HVA memo, the guidance must be followed in order to properly idenƟfy HVAs (eﬀecƟvely making the guidance 
mandatory). However, in some cases the guidance is broader and merely suggests acƟons.  
While government-wide policies like this one are not directly Ɵed to the CSF in the same manner as NIST publicaƟons, 
the requirements in these policies and the minimum security requirements in FIPS publicaƟons are designed to be 
mutually compaƟble. The HVA memo lists FIPS publicaƟons and other authoriƟes that must be taken into account 
during implementaƟon. NIST publicaƟons are updated regularly to account for newly issued government-wide poli-
cies. 
Takeaways:  
x Risk for all systems is not equal, and agencies must know which 
of their assets require specialized protecƟon.
x Agencies must take a strategic enterprise-wide view of risk that 
accounts for all criƟcal business and mission funcƟons when 
idenƟfying HVAs.  
x Agencies must also establish appropriate governance of HVA 
acƟviƟes across the enterprise and should integrate HVA reme-
diaƟon acƟviƟes into agency planning, programming, budg-
eƟng, and execuƟon processes.  
x Agencies must develop, maintain, and regularly update their 
HVA inventory lists, at least annually. 
Figure 6: Agency HVA Process Framework43 
43M-17-09 – Management of Federal High Value Assets hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/ 
m-17-09.pdf

--- Página 57 ---
57 
2.4 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES  
Breach of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) 
When a breach occurs, the kind of informaƟon breached oOen determines the nature of the response. PII contained 
on government servers must be treated diﬀerently than other kinds of informaƟon because it is entrusted to 
cybersecurity oﬃcials on the public’s behalf. The Privacy Act and other authoriƟes protect users of Federal services 
from unauthorized access to their informaƟon. 
OMB issued M-17-12 to clarify the speciﬁc acƟons required by agencies when responding to a breach of PII. The 
memo “reﬂects certain changes to laws, policies, and best pracƟces that have emerged since the [OMB] ﬁrst required 
agencies to develop plans to respond to a breach.”44 The issuance of such policies necessitate changes in the 
corresponding internal policies for each agency (in this case to their breach response procedures and the related 
reporƟng requirements, which are Ɵed to NIST publicaƟons and DHS reporƟng policies, respecƟvely). 
Takeaways:
xBreaches involving PII trigger a set of required acƟons in addiƟon to usual breach procedures. 
xSpeciﬁc acƟons must be taken by the agency’s Senior Agency Oﬃcial for Privacy (SAOP), who works closely with 
the CIO and CISO during privacy-related incidents. 
44 M-17-12: Preparing for and Responding to a Breach of Personally IdenƟﬁable InformaƟon. Pg. 1. hƩps://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/ 
default/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/m-17-12_0.pdf  
45 BOD-18-01: Enhance Email and Web Security hƩps://cyber.dhs.gov/assets/report/bod-18-01.pdf  
Binding Operational Directives (BODs) 
In coordinaƟon with OMB, DHS develops and oversees implementaƟon of Binding OperaƟonal DirecƟves (BODs) “for 
purposes of safeguarding Federal [sic] informaƟon and informaƟon systems.”45 Federal agencies are required to 
comply with these policies, which oOen come with background informaƟon and acƟon plans aƩached. BOD-18-01 
mandates speciﬁc security standards to promote “cyber hygiene.” It lays out required acƟons for agencies to enhance 
email and web security.  
BODs are also used to respond to speciﬁc government-wide threats, as in the case of BOD-17-01. This BOD was issued 
when it became clear that Federal hardware from Kaspersky may have been compromised. Agencies were asked to 
make a plan to disconƟnue use of the potenƟally unsecured products.  
Takeaways:  
xBODs are a form of government-wide response to cybersecurity issues targeted at government-wide acƟon. 
xAgencies are required to comply with BODs. 
xBODs can be issued in response to speciﬁc threats or can mandate government-wide changes.

--- Página 58 ---
58 
2.4 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES  
NIST National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence:  
Data Integrity Attacks 
While some policy develops from administraƟon iniƟaƟves or speciﬁc known cybersecurity threats, many government-
wide publicaƟons come from rigorous, proacƟve invesƟgaƟon of the threat landscape. The NaƟonal Cybersecurity 
Center of Excellence (NCCoE) at NIST aides the development of eﬀecƟve cybersecurity policy by tesƟng methods and 
techniques in a laboratory environment. In the case of the NIST SP 1800-series, the NCCoE provides pracƟce guides to 
help agencies test their networks against various threats. 
Once such publicaƟon, NIST SP 1800-11, allows agencies to test their recovery methods in the case of data integrity 
aƩacks. This publicaƟon is guidance, so it does not establish any new requirements. Agencies “can choose to adopt 
[the publicaƟon’s] soluƟon or one that adheres to these suggested guidelines,” or they can “use [the] guide as a 
starƟng point for tailoring and implemenƟng parts of the soluƟon.”46 While adopƟng minimum security requirements 
from documents like FIPS 200, agencies should be aware of these pracƟce guides and other guidance that NIST pro-
vides to strengthen networks across the Federal Government. 
Takeaways: 
x Policies can be developed through invesƟgaƟon and research, not only through administraƟon iniƟaƟves and 
reacƟons to threats. 
x Government-wide standards and requirements are developed by NIST with considerable private-sector and in-
dustry input.  
x Awareness of the full range of publicaƟons and guidance will help CISOs improve their cybersecurity programs. 
46NIST SP 1800-11 – Data Integrity: Recovering from Ransomware and Other DestrucƟve Events Pg. 2 hƩps://www.nccoe.nist.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/ 
library/sp1800/di-nist-sp1800-11-draO.pdf

--- Página 59 ---
59 
2.4 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE INITIATIVES  
The Joint Cybersecurity Performance Measurement Working Group: 
Driving Preferred Outcomes through the Evaluation Process 
In addiƟon to providing CIOs, CISOs, and agency leadership with informaƟon on the status of their informaƟon securi-
ty programs, the evaluaƟon materials derived from FISMA metrics can be leveraged to drive speciﬁc outcomes sought 
aOer by the CISO community. The metrics themselves are derived through a collaboraƟve process between members 
of the OMB- and DHS-led Joint Cybersecurity Performance Measurement Working Group (JCPMWG), a subcommiƩee 
of the CISO Council.  
Open to members of the Federal CISO Community and their staﬀ, the JCPMWG regularly revisits the FISMA metrics to 
determine whether they reﬂect current security needs. Part of this process involves soliciƟng the prioriƟes CIOs and 
CISOs wish to drive toward and the advanced capabiliƟes they seek to implement. This allows CISOs to help shape the 
metrics process to ensure it is helping them achieve their goals and prioriƟes. 
The JCPMWG also frequently helps drive prioriƟzaƟon of metrics in various oversight materials. For instance, due in 
large part to prioriƟes expressed by the JCPMWG and Federal cybersecurity community, anƟ-phishing capabiliƟes 
were added in 2015 to the Cybersecurity Cross-Agency Priority (CAP) Goal, which represents the ExecuƟve Branch’s 
Federal management prioriƟes. With these security areas elevated in the then-AdministraƟon’s prioriƟes, CISOs were 
able to seek greater investment in these capabiliƟes in order to improve their standing in these criƟcal areas. When 
the anƟ-phishing targets were added to the CAP goal, only about half of the civilian CFO Act agencies were meeƟng 
them. By the Ɵme the CAP Goal closed at the end of FY 2017, they were all meeƟng the targets.

--- Página 60 ---
60 
S E C T I O N  3
 
MANAGEMENT 
RESOURCES 
3.1 Workforce 
3.2 Contracting 
3.3 Government-wide Services

--- Página 61 ---
61 
3 
MANAGEMENT 
RESOURCES 
INTRODUCTION 
SecƟon 3 is intended to increase a CISOs awareness of resources and processes not covered in the ﬁrst two secƟons.  
SecƟons 3.1 and 3.2 provide basic informaƟon to help a CISO manage personnel decisions as they work to improve 
their organizaƟon’s cybersecurity posture. Current eﬀorts to address workforce challenges in a government-wide 
manner have led to the development of new tools and services to help organizaƟons establish a beƩer high-level view 
of their cybersecurity workforce and the gaps therein. 
SecƟon 3.3 lists some of the services available through government-wide organizaƟons, especially DHS and GSA. CISOs 
should be aware of the tools and acquisiƟon vehicles that have been put in place to help organizaƟons navigate 
cybersecurity challenges. A catalog of GSA services, links, and addiƟonal informaƟon has been provided in SecƟon A.4 
of the appendices.

--- Página 62 ---
62 
3.1 WORKFORCE  
Cybersecurity workforce management is a responsibility the CISO shares with their agency’s Human Resources 
department and the agency CIO. The Federal Cybersecurity Workforce Assessment Act of 2015 was passed to assess 
and improve the Federal Government’s ability to recruit, hire, and retain cybersecurity talent. The Act’s 
implementaƟon has been a collaboraƟve eﬀort between NIST, OPM, DHS, and Federal agencies, and has bolstered the 
development of government-wide workforce standards and resources. 
Each agency is permiƩed to create their own process for recruitment and hiring based on their organizaƟonal needs. 
Since managers, HR departments, and organizaƟonal stakeholders may interpret hiring needs diﬀerently, a CISO must 
be aware of government-wide standards and their organizaƟon’s recruitment and hiring processes. 
NICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework 
The NaƟonal IniƟaƟve for Cybersecurity EducaƟon (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework, also known as the 
NICE Framework or NIST SP 800-181, is an important tool for evaluaƟng your organizaƟon’s cybersecurity workforce, 
ﬁlling vacancies, and creaƟng ongoing plans for employee development. The NICE Framework establishes taxonomy 
and common lexicon used to describe all cybersecurity work and workers irrespecƟve of where or for whom the work 
is performed. The NICE Framework is intended to be applied in the public, private, and academic sectors. 
The NICE Framework breaks the task of workforce management down into a system of codes which can then be used 
to make personnel decisions. It is comprised of the following components: 
xCategories (7) – A high-level grouping of common cybersecurity funcƟons; 
xSpecialty Areas (33) – DisƟnct areas of cybersecurity work; and 
xWork Roles (52) – The most detailed groupings cybersecurity work comprised of speciﬁc knowledge, skills, and 
abiliƟes required to perform tasks in a work role. 
¡ Knowledge, Skills, and AbiliƟes (KSAs) – AƩributes required to perform Tasks, generally demonstrated 
through relevant experience or performance-based educaƟon and training. 
¡ Tasks – Speciﬁc deﬁned pieces of work that, combined with other idenƟﬁed Tasks, composes the work in a 
speciﬁc specialty area or work role.  
In January 2017, OPM issued government-wide guidance on assigning new cyber codes that are aligned to the NICE 
Framework. Agencies are working through the process of applying the codes to their cybersecurity workforce, and the 
next phase of implementaƟon (reports on which are due to OPM by April 2018) will require agencies to idenƟfy and 
report on Work Roles of CriƟcal Need.

--- Página 63 ---
63 
3.1 WORKFORCE  
THINGS 
TO KNOW 
 
x Direct-Hire Authority (DHA) – an appoinƟng (hiring) authority that the Oﬃce of Person-
nel Management (OPM) can give to Federal agencies for ﬁlling vacancies when a criƟcal 
hiring need or severe shortage of candidates exists. OPM posts a list of the current Gov-
ernment-wide DHAs. In addiƟon, agencies must post all vacancies ﬁlled by DHA 
on USAJOBS.gov. There are two methods under which OPM issues Direct-Hire Authority: 
¡ An agency with delegated examining authority may submit a wriƩen request to 
OPM for speciﬁc posiƟons; or 
¡ OPM may decide independently that a "severe shortage of candidates" or a 
"criƟcal hiring need" exists for speciﬁc posiƟons in some or all locaƟons and issue 
authority either Government-wide or for speciﬁc agencies and/or locaƟons. 
¡ CIO Hiring AuthoriƟes – The recently issued ExecuƟve Order Enhancing the 
EﬀecƟveness of Agency Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcers (EO 13833) directed 
OPM to establish rules under which they grant DHA for IT posiƟons of criƟcal 
need. 
x Veterans’ Preference – Under 5 U.S.C. 2108, and supported by implemenƟng regulaƟons 
by OPM, certain types of acƟve duty service may qualify for veterans’ preference (i.e., 
preference eligible). 47 
x CIO Council’s Workforce CommiƩee – This group’s agenda encompasses the full employ-
ment life cycle: workforce planning, recruitment, retenƟon, and career development. 
The CommiƩee works with the HR community to develop, implement and communicate 
strategies to recruit, retain, and manage a fully trained and qualiﬁed IT workforce, to 
meet current and future mission requirements. Their Strategic IniƟaƟves include:  
¡ MulƟ-Agency Recruitment and Hiring Events; 
47See: Government-wide Veterans Recruitment and Employment Strategic Plan FY2014-FY2017 hƩps:// www.fedshirevets.gov/pdf 
Vets_IniƟaƟve_Strategic_Plan_2014.pdf 
See also: Employment of Veterans in the Federal ExecuƟve Branch Fiscal Year 2014 hƩps://www.fedshirevets.gov/hire/hrp/reports/ Em-
ploymentOfVets-FY14.pdf

--- Página 64 ---
64 
3.1 WORKFORCE  
NICCS Workforce Resources 
The NaƟonal IniƟaƟve for Cybersecurity Careers and Studies is an online resource provided by DHS for cybersecurity 
training. It connects Government employees, students, educators, and industry with cybersecurity training providers 
throughout the naƟon. The NICCS website hosts a variety of resources that can help agencies improve their cybersecu-
rity workforce.  
The Explore the Framework Tool is a navigable version of the NICE Framework that lays out its seven categories and 
their specialty areas. The work roles listed in the NICE Framework are shown with their associated OPM codes along-
side resources for training, posiƟon descripƟons, and other related informaƟon. Using the tool, those making cyberse-
curity personnel decisions can map out their current workforce and idenƟfy gaps and needs. It can provide a printable 
inventory of roles, reporƟng assistance to help account for full and vacant posiƟons, and graphics that show how 
much of your workforce is mapped to each of the seven NICE Framework categories. 
The NICCS EducaƟon and Training Catalog contains over 3,000 cybersecurity and cyber-related courses oﬀered na-
Ɵonwide. The catalog allows agencies to search for courses and training opportuniƟes available to Government work-
ers. Integrated with the Training Catalog is the Federal Virtual Training Environment (FedVTE), which provides free 
online, on-demand training in cybersecurity for Federal employees and contractors which is aligned to the cerƟﬁca-
Ɵons included in the NICE Framework. 
The Cybersecurity Workforce Development Toolkit helps agencies assess and understand their cybersecurity work-
force risks. The Toolkit provides templates for workers to create cybersecurity career paths and resources to help 
agencies recruit and retain top cybersecurity talent. Among its Ɵme-saving features is the PushBuƩon PD Tool, which 
can help an agency build a posiƟon descripƟon (PD) that is aligned to the NICE Framework. It generates the PD with 
associated documents, helping both managers and HR departments streamline their recruitment process.

--- Página 65 ---
65 
3.2 CONTRACTING 
When developing their cybersecurity programs, agencies oOen turn to private sector companies to perform many nec-
essary tasks and provide criƟcal capabiliƟes. ContracƟng needs vary widely by agency, with some using hundreds of 
contractors and some using small teams to supplement their full-Ɵme Federal operaƟons staﬀ. Service providers from 
the private sector are, in many cases, able to leverage the common needs of agencies to provide more eﬃcient and 
cost-eﬀecƟve products. 
CISOs must be aware of the regulaƟons that govern contracƟng and the wide variety of acquisiƟon vehicles and sup-
port services oﬀered, especially by GSA, that are Ɵed to those regulaƟons. GSA makes certain targeted or government-
wide contracts available to meet agency demands or to help leverage market forces to provide agencies with products 
and services that address idenƟﬁed needs. A few key examples are discussed below, and a full list of GSA oﬀerings is 
included in the SecƟon A.4 of the appendices. 
For detailed informaƟon and ordering procedures, see “GSA IT Products and Services.” 
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 
The Federal AcquisiƟon RegulaƟon (FAR) is the set of rules that governs the acquisiƟon process for Federal agencies. It 
is codiﬁed in Title 48, Chapter 1 of the Code of Federal RegulaƟons and empowers agencies to purchase or lease goods 
and services by contract using appropriated funds. The FAR establishes requirements for acquisiƟon planning, contract 
formaƟon, and contract administraƟon. CISOs will usually interact with the FAR language indirectly because of the 
range of services that GSA has provided to make IT services easier to purchase.  
GSA Schedules and Contract Types 
Under the GSA Schedules Program (also referred to as MulƟple Award Schedules and Federal Supply Schedules), GSA 
establishes long-term government-wide contracts with commercial ﬁrms to provide access to over 11 million com-
mercial supplies (products) and services. Under this program, a contract holder can sell to any Government agency 
with just one source, instead of having separate contracts with each agency. 
Key Contract Types under GSA Schedules: 
Indeﬁnite Delivery Indeﬁnite QuanƟty (IDIQ) – provide for an indeﬁnite quanƟty of services for a ﬁxed Ɵme. They 
are used when GSA cannot determine, above a speciﬁed minimum, the precise quanƟƟes of supplies or ser-
vices that the Government will require during the contract period. IDIQs help streamline the contract process 
and speed service delivery. 
Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA) - an agreement established by a customer with a GSA Schedule contractor 
to ﬁll repeƟƟve needs for supplies or services (FAR 8.405-3). It simpliﬁes the process for recurring needs, 
while leveraging a customer's buying power by taking advantage of quanƟty discounts, saving administraƟve 
Ɵme, and reducing paperwork. 
Government-wide AcquisiƟon Contracts (GWACs) – a type of pre-competed, mulƟple award (MA) IDIQ contract 
that allows for the purchase of IT soluƟons by mulƟple Federal agencies at once. The scale of the contract 
results in lower costs than each individual agency could obtain on the open market. Major GWACS include 
Alliant, OASIS, 8(a) STARS II, and VETS.

--- Página 66 ---
66 
3.2 CONTRACTING 
Key GSA Contracting Vehicles and Services  
CONTRACTING VEHICLES 
IT Schedule 70 is a catalog of IT service providers and products that have met certain requirements to be placed in a 
streamlined acquisiƟon process managed by GSA. IT Schedule 70 (IT70) oﬀerings can be purchased directly on the GSA 
website. Available products and services range from providing government-wide soluƟons for desktops and laptops to 
CDM and cloud cybersecurity services. Using acquisiƟon vehicles like IT Schedule 70 can help agencies shorten 
procurement cycles by up to 50 percent over the open market, ensure compliance, and obtain the best value.
GSA FEDSIM provides assisted acquisiƟon support for informaƟon technology systems and services, and other 
professional services, to other U.S. Government agencies on a fee for service basis. 
Enterprise Infrastructure SoluƟons (EIS) is a comprehensive soluƟon-based vehicle to address all aspects of Federal 
agency IT telecommunicaƟons, and infrastructure requirements. A successor to Networx, WITS3, and Regional Local 
Service Agreements, EIS will make it easier for agencies to acquire their enterprise telecommunicaƟons and IT 
infrastructure services from a single source. 
IdenƟty ProtecƟon Services (IPS) BPA gives Federal agencies access to a variety of idenƟty protecƟon services 
covering both rouƟne protecƟon services that include consumer credit reports, address veriﬁcaƟon reports, and credit 
risk assessments; and recovery services involving suspected or actual breaches of sensiƟve personally idenƟﬁable 
informaƟon. 
 
SERVICES 
Highly AdapƟve Cybersecurity Services (HACS) are found on IT Schedule 70. These Special Item Numbers (SINs) were 
developed jointly between DHS and GSA to meet criƟcal capability gaps in agency risk assessments. DHS provided the 
technical experƟse, standard operaƟng procedures, and scope of how these services should be delivered, while GSA 
validated the qualiﬁcaƟons of parƟcular vendors to meet DHS and agency expectaƟons. GSA then added them to IT70 
in an easily idenƟﬁable manner. These SINs provide agencies quicker access to key, pre-veƩed support services, 
including: 
x 132-45A – PenetraƟon TesƟng – security tesƟng in which assessors mimic real-world aƩacks to idenƟfy methods 
for circumvenƟng the security features of an applicaƟon, system, or network. 
x 132-45B – Incident Response – help organizaƟons impacted by a cybersecurity compromise determine the 
extent of the incident, remove the adversary from their systems, and restore their networks to a more secure 
state.
x 132-45C – Cyber Hunt – responses to crisis or urgent situaƟons within the perƟnent domain to miƟgate 
immediate and potenƟal threats. 
x 132-45D – Risk and Vulnerability Assessment – services that assess threats and vulnerabiliƟes, assess the level 
of risk associated with deviaƟons from acceptable conﬁguraƟons, and develop and/or recommend appropriate 
miƟgaƟon countermeasures in operaƟonal and non-operaƟonal situaƟons.

--- Página 67 ---
67 
3.2 CONTRACTING 
USAccess oﬀers PIV card issuance to Government agencies through a shared enrollment/acƟvaƟon infrastructure and 
end-to-end credenƟal maintenance. 
Login.gov oﬀers the public secure and private online access to parƟcipaƟng Government programs. With one 
login.gov account, users can sign in to mulƟple Government agencies.  
FedRAMP is a government-wide program that provides a standardized approach to security assessment, 
authorizaƟon, and conƟnuous monitoring for cloud products and services (See Focus On: FedRAMP below).

--- Página 68 ---
68 
3.2 CONTRACTING 
Focus On: FedRAMP and Cloud Services 
The FedRAMP Program Management Oﬃce (PMO) provides oversight of FedRAMP processes, developing standards 
and templates and coordinaƟng with, evaluaƟng, and maintaining the repository of security documentaƟon for 
Cloud Service Providers (CSPs).  
FedRAMP deﬁnes three primary players in the process: Federal agencies, CSPs, and Third Party Assessment Organiza-
Ɵons (3PAOs).
The Joint AuthorizaƟon Board (JAB) is the primary governance and decision-making body for the FedRAMP program. 
The JAB reviews and provides joint provisional security authorizaƟons of cloud soluƟons using a standardized base-
line approach. Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcers from the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, 
and the General Services AdministraƟon serve on the JAB.  
 
FedRAMP JAB duƟes and responsibiliƟes: 
x Deﬁne FedRAMP security authorizaƟon requirements 
x Approve accreditaƟon criteria for third party assessment organizaƟons 
x Establish a priority queue for authorizaƟon package reviews 
x Review FedRAMP authorizaƟon packages 
x Grant joint provisional authorizaƟons 
x Ensure that provisional authorizaƟons are reviewed and updated regularly

--- Página 69 ---
69 
3.3 
GOVERNMENT- 
WIDE SERVICES 
 
Governance, Risk & Compliance 
x Cybersecurity Assessment and Risk Management Approach (CARMA) 
x High Value Asset (HVA) 
x Cybersecurity CoordinaƟon, Assessment, and Response (C-CAR) 
x CriƟcal Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council (CIPAC) 
x CyberScope & CyberStat Review Program 
x Industrial Control Systems Security Assessments 
 
Security OperaƟons 
x Advanced Malware Analysis Center (AMAC) 
x FireEye / iSight – Threat Intelligence 
x .gov Cybersecurity Architecture Review (.govCAR) 
x Incident Response – Hunt and Incident Response Team (HIRT) 
x EINSTEIN 
x Infoblox/Looking Glass – Threat Intelligence  
 
Systems Security 
x High Value Asset Assessment 
x Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 
x Remote PenetraƟon TesƟng 
x Phishing Campaign Assessment 
x Industrial Control Systems Security Assessments 
x Red Team Assessments 
x Threat HunƟng 
 
IdenƟty & Access Management 
x FIPS 201 EvaluaƟon Program 
x PIV/PIV-D TesƟng 
x Physical Access Control System (PACS) 
x Server-Based CerƟﬁcate ValidaƟon Protocol (SCVP) 
 
Cloud Security 
x Customer Engagement and SoluƟons Development Division (CESDD) 
x Cloud Statement of ObjecƟves (SOO) Templates

--- Página 70 ---
70 
S E C T I O N  A
 
APPENDIX 
A.1 Example Agency Internal Policies 
A.2 Government-wide Policies and Publications
A.3 FISMA Responsibility Breakdowns 
A.4 GSA Services 
A.5 Glossary

--- Página 71 ---
71 
A.1 Example Agency Internal Policies    ………………………………………………………………...……………...73                           
A.1.1 Secure Asset Management Policy    ……………………………………………………………………….…..74                           
A.1.2 Risk Management Policy    ………………………………………………………………………………...….…..78 
A.1.3 Access Control Policy    ………………………………………………………………………………………..…....82 
A.1.4 System Maintenance Policy    ………………………………………………………………………….........….95 
A.1.5 ConƟnuous Monitoring Policy    ………………………………………………………………………..….....102 
A.1.6 Malicious Code Policy    ………………………………………………………………….…………………...…..107  
A.1.7 Incident Response Policy    …………………………………………………….………………………...……...111 
A.1.8 ConƟngency Planning Policy    ………………………………………………………………………….....…..118 
A.2. Government-wide Policies and PublicaƟons ………………………………………………………………...129 
A.3. FISMA Responsibility Breakdowns    ……………………………………………………………………………..136            
A.3.1 FISMA Responsibility Breakdown for Agencies    ……………………………………………….........136
A.3.2 FISMA Responsibility Breakdown for DHS    ……………………………………………………...……..150
A.3.3 FISMA Responsibility Breakdown for OMB    ……………………………………………………...…...157 
A.4. GSA Services    ……….……………………………………………………………………………………………….......162 
A.5. Glossary    …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….166 
A 
APPENDIX  
CONTENTS

--- Página 72 ---
72 
A.1 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES  
The internal agency policies provided below connect to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework Core FuncƟon highlights in 
SecƟon 2.2. They are purely illustraƟve and should not be copied wholesale by organizaƟons in place of detailed risk 
analysis. They are included to give new CISOs a starƟng point from which to develop policy from scratch, tailored to 
their organizaƟon’s needs.

--- Página 73 ---
73 
A.1 
A.1.1 Secure Asset Management Policy 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES  
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy provides requirements for controlling access of hardware, soOware, and ﬁrmware to the network 
infrastructure. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 20141 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 20062 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-1303 
D. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 44 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security controls as deﬁned in NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-53 and 
assigns programmaƟc responsibility to speciﬁc oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the security 
control baseline for informaƟon systems to more closely align security requirements with [Agency]’s mission and 
business requirements and environments of operaƟon may be appropriate.
4. DeﬁniƟons5 
A. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer (ISSO): An individual with the detailed knowledge and experƟse required to 
manage the security aspects of an informaƟon system.  The ISSO is the principal advisor for the System Owner 
to obtain guidance in security maƩers and support the disseminaƟon of security requirements.  The ISSO role is 
held by informaƟon security specialists in [Agency] Cybersecurity and provides independent review and 
oversight of security processes involving the design, development, and implementaƟon of informaƟon systems. 
B. Infrastructure Manager (IM): Manages the network or datacenter that handles [Agency] applicaƟons or data, at 
all locaƟons where it is maintained, and is responsible for providing in-depth informaƟon security support for 
[Agency]’s infrastructure.
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
Infrastructure Managers must: 
A. Maintain an enterprise-wide inventory of components on the network infrastructure. 
B. Ensure that all assets connected to the network are authorized and asset ownership is idenƟﬁed. 
1hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
2hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
3hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
4hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
5As applicable to this policy.

--- Página 74 ---
74 
A.1 
InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers must: 
C. Review and enforce authorizaƟon boundary requirements for informaƟon systems. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described above, the following security controls must be met to secure 
[Agency] informaƟon systems.  The security controls below are described within the NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-53 
Rev. 4.6  [Agency]-speciﬁc security requirements are speciﬁed within brackets ('[', ']') within the control requirement 
descripƟons.  Requirements for informaƟon systems will be speciﬁed through the control tailoring process and 
approved through the signature of the security authorizaƟon package. 
A. Infrastructure Managers must: 
NIST # 
CONTROL NAME 
REQUIREMENT 
CM-8 a. InformaƟon System 
Component Inven-
tory 
x Develop and document an inventory of informaƟon system com-
ponents that: 
x Accurately reﬂects the current informaƟon system; 
x Includes all components within the authorizaƟon boundary of the 
informaƟon system; 
x Is at the level of granularity deemed necessary for tracking and 
reporƟng; and 
x Includes [where applicable: hardware inventory speciﬁcaƟons 
(manufacturer, type, model, serial number, physical locaƟon), 
soOware license informaƟon, informaƟon system/component 
owner, the component network name and network address] 
CM-8 b. InformaƟon System 
Component Inven-
x Review and update the informaƟon system component inventory 
[monthly] 
CM-8 
(1) 
InformaƟon System 
Component Inven-
tory | Updates Dur-
ing InstallaƟons / 
Removals 
x Update the inventory of informaƟon system components as an 
integral part of component installaƟons, removals, and infor-
maƟon system updates 
6hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 75 ---
75 
A.1 
NIST # CONTROL NAME 
REQUIREMENT 
CM-8 
(2) 
InformaƟon Sys-
tem Component 
Inventory | Auto-
mated Mainte-
nance 
x Employ automated mechanisms to help maintain an up-to-date, 
complete, accurate, and readily available inventory of informaƟon 
system components 
CM-8 
(3) a. 
InformaƟon Sys-
tem Component 
Inventory | Auto-
mated Unauthor-
ized Component 
DetecƟon 
x Employ automated mechanisms [in near real-Ɵme] to detect the 
presence of unauthorized hardware, soOware, and ﬁrmware com-
ponents within the informaƟon system 
CM-8 
(3) b. 
InformaƟon Sys-
tem Component 
Inventory | Auto-
mated Unauthor-
ized Component 
DetecƟon 
x Take the following acƟon when unauthorized components are de-
tected: [disables network access by such devices or quaranƟne the 
device from the network unƟl the device is idenƟﬁed, authorized, 
and is associated with a system and system owner] 
CM-8 
(4) 
InformaƟon Sys-
tem Component 
Inventory | Ac-
countability Infor-
maƟon 
x Include in the informaƟon system component inventory infor-
maƟon, a means for idenƟfying by [name; posiƟon; role], individuals 
responsible/accountable for administering those components 
CM-8 
(7) 
InformaƟon Sys-
tem Component 
Inventory | Cen-
tralized Repository 
x Provide a centralized repository for the inventory of informaƟon 
system components 
NIST # 
CONTROL NAME 
REQUIREMENT 
CM-8 (5) InformaƟon System 
Component Inven-
tory | No Duplicate 
AccounƟng of Com-
ponents 
Verify that all components within the authorizaƟon boundary of the 
informaƟon system are not duplicated in other informaƟon system 
inventories 
B.  InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers must: 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 76 ---
76 
A.1 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A. Compliance: This [Agency] security policy is mandatory for all employees and contractors.  This policy uses the 
plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following convenƟon is used: 
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon. 
B. Enforcement: The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the Cybersecurity Program; see SecƟon 8 for contact informaƟon.  
ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to  [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon 
systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency disciplinary procedures, and 
potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.  
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs. 
8. Contact InformaƟon
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes [Agency] InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy secƟons X.X.X. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 77 ---
77 
A.1 
A.1.2 Risk Management Policy 
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy provides requirements for periodic assessments of risk on informaƟon systems and  propriate response 
acƟons in order to eﬀecƟvely manage those risks that have been idenƟﬁed. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 20147 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 20068 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-1309 
D. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-04-2510 
E. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-14-0411 
F. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 412 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security controls as deﬁned in NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-53 and 
assigns programmaƟc responsibility to speciﬁc oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the security 
control baseline for informaƟon systems to more closely align security requirements with [Agency]’s mission and 
business requirements and environments of operaƟon may be appropriate. 
4. DeﬁniƟons13 
A. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer (ISSO): An individual with the detailed knowledge and experƟse required to 
manage the security aspects of an informaƟon system.  The ISSO is the principal advisor for the System Owner 
to obtain guidance in security maƩers and support the disseminaƟon of security requirements.  The ISSO role is 
held by informaƟon security specialists in [Agency] Cybersecurity and provides independent review and 
oversight of security processes involving the design, development, and implementaƟon of informaƟon systems. 
B. System Owner (SO): The program manager responsible for the procurement, development, integraƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, operaƟon, maintenance, and disposal of an informaƟon system.  The SO is responsible for 
saƟsfying the [Agency] mission and compliance with informaƟon security requirements of an informaƟon 
system. 
7Ʃps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
8hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
9hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
10hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/omb/memoranda/fy04/m04-25.pdf 
11hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2014/m-14-04.pdf 
12hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
13As applicable to this policy.  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 78 ---
78 
5.  Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers must: 
A.  Conduct an assessment of risk on all idenƟﬁed weaknesses in accordance with [Agency] security policies and 
NIST standards and guidelines. 
System Owners must: 
B.  Provide content for updates to the weaknesses idenƟﬁed in the POA&M.  Content to be updated covers all data 
elements required for POA&M reporƟng by OMB. 
C.  Remediate weaknesses on informaƟon systems within his / her system porƞolio within the maximum tolerable 
Ɵmelines in accordance with [Agency] security policies. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described above, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set of baseline 
security controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST Federal InformaƟon 
Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and the high impact security control baseline deﬁned in Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-
53 Rev. 4.  [Agency]-speciﬁc security requirements are speciﬁed within brackets ('[. . .]') within the control 
requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security controls is subject to the control tailoring process in 
accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, consistent with FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and 
approved through the CISO's, or CISO's designee's, signature of the system security plan. 
A.  The Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer must: 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
RA-1 a.  Risk Assessment 
Policy and 
Procedures  
x Develop, document, and disseminate to [Project Managers, 
InformaƟon Security Oﬃcers]: 
x A risk assessment policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, 
responsibiliƟes, management commitment, coordinaƟon among 
organizaƟonal enƟƟes, and compliance; and 
x Procedures to facilitate the implementaƟon of the risk assessment 
policy and associated risk assessment controls  
RA-1 b. Risk Assessment 
Policy and 
Procedures 
x Review and update the current: 
x Risk assessment policy [at least every 3 years]; and 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 79 ---
79 
B. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers must:  
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CA-5 a. Plan of AcƟon and 
Milestones 
x Develop a plan of acƟon and milestones for the informaƟon system 
to document the organizaƟon’s planned remedial acƟons to correct 
weaknesses or deﬁciencies noted during the assessment of the 
security controls and to reduce or eliminate known vulnerabiliƟes in 
the system 
CA-5 b. Plan of AcƟon and 
Milestones 
x Update exisƟng plan of acƟon and milestones [weekly] based on the 
ﬁndings from security controls assessments, security impact 
analyses, and conƟnuous monitoring acƟviƟes 
RA-3 a. Risk Assessment 
x Conduct an assessment of risk, including the likelihood and 
magnitude of harm, from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, 
disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or destrucƟon of the informaƟon system 
and the informaƟon it processes, stores, or transmits 
RA-3 b. Risk Assessment 
x Document risk assessment results in [Risk Assessment Report] 
RA-3 c. Risk Assessment 
x Review risk assessment results [at least annually] 
RA-3 d. Risk Assessment 
x Disseminate risk assessment results to [the System Owner, 
Authorizing Oﬃcial, and Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer in 
accordance with applicable security procedures] 
RA-3 e. Risk Assessment 
x Update the risk assessment [at least annually] or whenever there are 
signiﬁcant changes to the informaƟon system or environment of 
operaƟon (including the idenƟﬁcaƟon of new threats and 
vulnerabiliƟes), or other condiƟons that may impact the security 
state of the system
A.1 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A. Compliance: This [Agency] security policy is mandatory for all employees and contractors.  This policy uses the 
plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following convenƟon is used: 
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon. 
B. Enforcement: The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 80 ---
80 
A.1 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the Cybersecurity Program; see SecƟon 8 for contact informaƟon.  
ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon 
systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency disciplinary procedures, and 
potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs. 
8. Contact InformaƟon 
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes [Agency] InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy secƟons X.X.X, X.X.X, and X.X.X. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 81 ---
81 
A.1 
A.1.3 Access Control Policy 
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy provides requirements protecƟng access to [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon systems to support the 
overall security of its data and mission and requirements related to the authorizaƟon of [Agency] users to perform a 
deﬁned set of acƟons on a speciﬁc set of resources. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 201414 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 200615 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-13016 
D. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 417 
E. NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special PublicaƟon 800-116 Rev. 1, A RecommendaƟon for 
the Use of PIV CredenƟals in Physical Access Control Systems, November 200818 
F. NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-46 Rev. 1, Guide to Enterprise Telework and Remote Access Security, June 200919 
G. NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-162, Guide to AƩribute Based Access Control (ABAC) DeﬁniƟon and ConsideraƟons, 
June 201420 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This policy sets forth the baseline requirements for 
security controls as deﬁned in NIST 800-53 and assigns programmaƟc responsibility to speciﬁc oﬃces and posiƟons.  
As described below, tailoring of the security control baseline for informaƟon systems to more closely align security 
requirements with [Agency]’s mission and business requirements and environments of operaƟon may be appropriate. 
4. DeﬁniƟons21 
Account Manager: The Account Manager is responsible for granƟng proper access to [Agency] informaƟon systems 
through informaƟon system accounts.  This role is oOen held by system administrators, but it can also be held by 
members of the business oﬃce. 
B. Business Program Manager (BPM): The BPM has oversight of the informaƟon stored, processed, or transmiƩed 
14hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
15hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
16hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
17Ʃp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
18hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/nistpubs/800-116/SP800-116.pdf 
19hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/nistpubs/800-46-rev1/sp800-46r1.pdf 
20hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/specialpublicaƟons/NIST.sp.800-162.pdf 
21As applicable to this policy.  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 82 ---
82 
A.1 
by the supporƟng informaƟon system. The BPM represents the program oﬃce and the customers during the life 
of IT projects and coordinates the business needs with the System Owner. The BPM is kept apprised of the 
progress of the security authorizaƟon throughout the process. 
C. Facility Manager: The Facility Manager is responsible for establishing security standards and guidelines, 
implemenƟng physical and environmental security controls, and the monitoring of their implementaƟon at 
[Agency] faciliƟes.  The Facility Manager is also responsible for reviews of faciliƟes’ physical access 
authorizaƟons and of authorizaƟons issued when individuals are reassigned or transferred to other posiƟons 
within the organizaƟon. 
D. System Owner (SO): The program manager responsible for the procurement, development, integraƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, operaƟon, maintenance, and disposal of an informaƟon system.  The SO is responsible for 
saƟsfying the [Agency] mission and compliance with informaƟon security requirements of an informaƟon 
system. 
E. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer (ISSO): An individual with the detailed knowledge and experƟse required to 
manage the security aspects of an informaƟon system.  The ISSO is the principal advisor for the System Owner 
to obtain guidance in security maƩers and support the disseminaƟon of security requirements.  The ISSO role is 
held by informaƟon security specialists in [Agency] Cybersecurity and provides independent review and 
oversight of security processes involving the design, development, and implementaƟon of informaƟon systems. 
F. Infrastructure Manager (IM): Manages the network or datacenter that handles [Agency] applicaƟons or data, at 
all locaƟons where it is maintained, and is responsible for providing in-depth informaƟon security support for 
[Agency]’s infrastructure. 
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
Account Managers must: 
A. Ensure that logical access to [Agency] systems and the network is revoked, or modiﬁed, as necessary. 
B. Ensure that informaƟon system users are uniquely idenƟﬁed.  Shared or group accounts are not authorized. 
C. Verify that a prospecƟve system user has completed training and provided the required cerƟﬁcate of compleƟon 
before permiƫng access [Agency]’s informaƟon system. 
D. Conduct reviews of accounts requiring access to the informaƟon system using deﬁned security procedures. 
Managers/Supervisors must: 
A.Verify that the new user has completed the required FaciliƟes, Security, and ContracƟng paperwork to iniƟate 
the clearance processes ([Agency] Forms XXXX and XXXX). 
B.Process the [Agency] IT Access Request Form ([Agency] Form XXXX) by: 
i. 
Filling in the appropriate secƟons; 
ii. Providing the form to the new user and discussing his or her responsibiliƟes to protect sensiƟve 
informaƟon; 
iii. Verifying the user has completed the [Agency] IT Security Awareness Training; 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 83 ---
83 
A.1 
iv. Receiving a signature for the access request from the user; 
v. Signing the form prior to the user gaining access to the system;  
vi. Receiving approval signatures from the COR for contractor employees; and 
vii. Providing the XXXX form to the Account Manager for access to the system. 
C.  NoƟfy Facility Managers and Account Managers by 5:00pm of the eﬀecƟve date when [Agency] employees and 
contractors with access to the system are terminated, transferred, or a need-to-know determinaƟon has 
changed.  Employees and contractors on acƟve contracts may regain access to the network by calling and 
authenƟcaƟng themselves to the Help Desk.  CompleƟon of an addiƟonal Form XXXX for network access is not 
required unƟl 35 days have passed since the last systems access. 
D.  Support reviews of accounts by reporƟng changes in access rights for individuals idenƟﬁed during the reviews. 
System Owners must: 
A.  Conﬁgure informaƟon systems to enforce the most restricƟve set of rights and privileges or accesses needed by 
users (or processes acƟng on behalf of users) for the performance of speciﬁed tasks. 
B.  Only use approved methods of remote access to informaƟon systems. 
C.  Create access control matrices for informaƟon systems within his or her porƞolio in accordance with deﬁned 
security procedures.  Access control matrices deﬁne roles and permissions for access to the system, condiƟons 
for membership in deﬁned roles, and segregaƟon of duƟes requirements.  SegregaƟon of duƟes requirements 
are deﬁned in collaboraƟon with the BPM. 
D.  Receive approval from the CIO or CISO for the use of new methods of remote access prior to implementaƟon 
based on a risk assessment using NIST SP 800-30, Guide for ConducƟng Risk Assessments.22 
Infrastructure Managers must: 
A.  Develop the [Agency] system use noƟﬁcaƟon message and receive approval from the Oﬃce of General Counsel 
for its use. 
B.  Disable informaƟon system funcƟonality that provides the capability for automaƟc execuƟon of code on mobile 
devices without user direcƟon. 
C.  If an employee or contractor changes roles, review their access rights and adjust to ﬁt the new parameters of the 
role if appropriate. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described within this policy, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set 
of baseline security controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST Federal 
InformaƟon Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and the high impact security control baseline deﬁned in Special 
PublicaƟon (SP) 800-53 Rev. 4.  Parameters have been deﬁned to meet [Agency] security requirements and are 
22hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/nistpubs/800-30-rev1/sp800_30_r1.pdf  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 84 ---
84 
A.1 
included within brackets ('[. . .]') within the control requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security controls is 
subject to the control tailoring process in accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, consistent with 
FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and approved through the CISO's, or CISO's designee's, signature of the system security 
plan. 
A.  Account Manager Requirements: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-2 d. Account 
Management 
x Specify authorized users of the informaƟon system, group and role 
membership, and access authorizaƟons (i.e., privileges) and other 
aƩributes (as required) for each account 
AC-2 e. Account 
Management 
x Require approvals by [organizaƟon managers and/or security 
representaƟves] for requests to create informaƟon system accounts 
AC-2 f. Account 
Management 
x Create, enable, modify, disable, and remove informaƟon system 
accounts in accordance with [[Agency] access control procedure] 
AC-2 g. Account 
Management 
x Monitor the use of informaƟon system accounts 
AC-2 j.
Account 
Management 
x Review accounts for compliance with account management 
requirements [at least monthly following deﬁned security 
procedures] 
AC-2 
(11) 
Account 
Management | 
Usage CondiƟons 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to enforce [requirements to meet 
[Agency] mission and business objecƟves] for [use of guest / 
anonymous and temporary accounts] 
AC-2 
(12) a. 
Account 
Management | 
Account 
Monitoring / 
Atypical Usage 
x Monitor informaƟon system accounts for [atypical usage depending 
on the account and role] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 85 ---
85 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-2 
(12) b. 
Account 
Management | 
Account 
Monitoring / 
Atypical Usage 
x Report atypical usage of informaƟon system accounts to [the 
InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer] 
AC-2 
(13) 
Account 
Management | 
Disable Accounts 
for High-Risk 
Individuals 
x Disable accounts of users posing a signiﬁcant risk within [24 hours] 
of discovery of the risk 
AC-6 (5) Least Privilege | 
Privileged Accounts 
x Restrict privileged accounts on the informaƟon system to [roles 
deﬁned in the system access control matrix] 
B.  Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer Requirements: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-1 a. Access Control 
Policy and 
Procedures 
x Develop, document, and disseminate to [Project Managers, 
InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers]: 
x An access control policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, 
responsibiliƟes, management commitment, coordinaƟon among 
organizaƟonal enƟƟes, and compliance; and 
x Procedures to facilitate the implementaƟon of the access control 
AC-1 b. Access Control 
Policy and 
Procedures 
x Review and update the current: 
x Access control policy [at least every 3 years]; and 
x Access control procedures [at least every 2 years] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 86 ---
86 
A.1 
C.  Business Program Manager Requirements:  
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-2 i. Account 
Management 
x Authorize access to the informaƟon system based on: 
x A valid access authorizaƟon; 
x Intended system usage; and 
x Other aƩributes as required by the Program Oﬃce or associated 
missions/business funcƟons 
AC-2 (5) Account 
Management | 
InacƟvity Logout 
x Require that users log out when [at the compleƟon of the work 
day]. 
AC-5 a. SeparaƟon of 
DuƟes 
x Separate [duƟes of individuals as necessary to prevent conﬂict of 
interest acƟvity without collusion] 
AC-6 
Least Privilege 
x Employ the principle of least privilege, allowing only authorized 
accesses for users (or processes acƟng on behalf of users) which 
are necessary to accomplish assigned tasks in accordance with 
organizaƟonal missions and business funcƟons 
AC-6 (1) Least Privilege | 
Authorize Access to 
Security FuncƟons 
x Explicitly authorize access to [security funcƟons including but not 
limited to establishing system accounts, conﬁguring access 
authorizaƟons (i.e., permissions, privileges), seƫng events to be 
audited, modifying device conﬁguraƟons, etc. )] 
AC-6 (2) Least Privilege | 
Non-Privileged 
Access for Non-
Security FuncƟons 
x Require that users of informaƟon system accounts, or roles, with 
access to [security funcƟons including but not limited to 
establishing system accounts, conﬁguring access authorizaƟons 
(i.e., permissions, privileges), seƫng events to be audited, 
modifying device conﬁguraƟons, etc.)], use non-privileged 
accounts or roles, when accessing non-security funcƟons 
AC-6 (3) Least Privilege | 
Network Access to 
Privileged 
Commands 
x Authorize network access to [privileged commands for managing 
accounts, applicaƟons, systems, or security informaƟon] only for 
[compelling operaƟonal needs aOer consultaƟon with the ISSO] 
and documents the raƟonale for such access in the security plan 
for the informaƟon system 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 87 ---
87 
NIST #
CONTROL NAME
REQUIREMENT
AC-14 
a. 
PermiƩed AcƟons 
without 
IdenƟﬁcaƟon or 
AuthenƟcaƟon 
x IdenƟfy [acƟons, in consultaƟon with the CISO,] that can be 
performed on the informaƟon system without idenƟﬁcaƟon or 
authenƟcaƟon consistent with organizaƟonal missions/business 
funcƟons 
AC-20 
a. 
Use of External 
InformaƟon 
Systems 
x Establish terms and condiƟons, consistent with any trust 
relaƟonships established with other organizaƟons owning, 
operaƟng, and/or maintaining external informaƟon systems, 
allowing authorized individuals to: 
x Access the informaƟon system from external informaƟon systems; 
AC-20 
b. 
Use of External 
InformaƟon 
Systems 
x Establish terms and condiƟons, consistent with any trust 
relaƟonships established with other organizaƟons owning, 
operaƟng, and/or maintaining external informaƟon systems, 
allowing authorized individuals to: 
x Process, store, or transmit organizaƟon-controlled informaƟon using 
external informaƟon systems. 
AC-20 
(1) 
Use of External 
InformaƟon 
Systems 
x Permit authorized individuals to use an external informaƟon system 
to access the informaƟon system or to process, store, or transmit 
organizaƟon-controlled informaƟon only when the Program Oﬃce: 
x Veriﬁes the implementaƟon of required security controls on the 
external system as speciﬁed in the organizaƟon’s informaƟon 
security policy and security plan; or 
x Retains approved informaƟon system connecƟon or processing 
agreements with the organizaƟonal enƟty hosƟng the external 
informaƟon system 
AC-22 
a. 
Publicly Accessible 
Content 
x Designate individuals authorized to post informaƟon onto a publicly 
accessible informaƟon system 
AC-22 
b. 
Publicly Accessible 
Content 
x Train authorized individuals to ensure that publicly accessible 
informaƟon does not contain nonpublic informaƟon 
AC-22 
c. 
Publicly Accessible 
Content 
x Review the proposed content of informaƟon prior to posƟng onto 
the publicly accessible informaƟon system to ensure that nonpublic 
informaƟon is not included 
AC-22 
d. 
Publicly Accessible 
Content 
x Review the content on the publicly accessible informaƟon system for 
nonpublic informaƟon [at least annually] and removes such 
informaƟon, if discovered 
A.1 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 88 ---
88 
A.1 
D.  Manager / Supervisor Requirements: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-2 h. Account 
Management 
x NoƟfy account managers: 
x When accounts are no longer required; 
x When users are terminated or transferred; and 
x When individual informaƟon system usage or need-to-know changes 
E.  System Owner Requirements:  
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-2 a. Account 
Management 
x IdenƟfy and select the following types of informaƟon system 
accounts to support organizaƟonal missions/business funcƟons: 
[account types deﬁned within the system access control matrix] 
AC-2 b. Account 
Management 
x Assign account managers for informaƟon system accounts 
AC-2 c. Account 
Management 
x Establish condiƟons for group and role membership
AC-2 (1) Account 
Management | 
Automated System 
Account 
Management 
x Employ automated mechanisms to support the management of 
informaƟon system accounts 
AC-2 (2) Account 
Management | 
Removal of 
Temporary / 
Emergency 
Accounts 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to automaƟcally [disable] 
temporary and emergency accounts aOer [no more than 7 calendar 
days] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 89 ---
89 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-2 (3) Account 
Management | 
Disable InacƟve 
Accounts 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to automaƟcally disable inacƟve 
accounts aOer [14 calendar days of inacƟvity] 
AC-2 (4) Account 
Management | 
Automated Audit 
AcƟons 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to automaƟcally audit account 
creaƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, enabling, disabling, and removal acƟons, and 
noƟfy [Account Managers] 
AC-3 
Access 
Enforcement 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to enforce approved 
authorizaƟons for logical access to informaƟon and system resources 
in accordance with applicable access control policies 
AC-4 
InformaƟon Flow 
Enforcement 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to enforce approved 
authorizaƟons for controlling the ﬂow of informaƟon within the 
system and between interconnected systems based on [[Agency] 
Access Control, Boundary ProtecƟon, and InformaƟon Sharing 
policies] 
AC-5 b. SeparaƟon of 
DuƟes 
x Document separaƟon of duƟes of individuals 
AC-5 c. SeparaƟon of 
DuƟes 
x Deﬁne informaƟon system access authorizaƟons to support 
separaƟon of duƟes 
AC-6 (9) Least Privilege | 
AudiƟng Use of 
Privileged Accounts 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to audit the execuƟon of 
privileged funcƟons 
AC-6 
(10) 
Least Privilege | 
Prohibit Non-
Privileged Users 
from ExecuƟng 
Privileged 
FuncƟons 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to prevent non-privileged users 
from execuƟng privileged funcƟons to include disabling, 
circumvenƟng, or altering implemented security safeguards/
countermeasures 
AC-7 a. Unsuccessful Logon 
AƩempts 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to: 
x Enforce a limit of [three] consecuƟve invalid logon aƩempts by a 
user during a [indeﬁnite Ɵme period]; 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 90 ---
90 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-7 b. Unsuccessful Logon 
AƩempts 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to: 
x AutomaƟcally [lock the account unƟl unlocked by an administrator] 
when the maximum number of unsuccessful aƩempts is exceeded 
AC-8 a. System Use 
NoƟﬁcaƟon 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to display to users [an [Agency] 
approved Warning Banner] before granƟng access to the system that 
provides privacy and security noƟces consistent with applicable 
federal laws, ExecuƟve Orders, direcƟves, policies, regulaƟons, 
standards, and guidance and states that:
x Users are accessing a U.S. Government informaƟon system; 
x InformaƟon system usage may be monitored, recorded, and subject 
to audit; 
x Unauthorized use of the informaƟon system is prohibited and 
subject to criminal and civil penalƟes; and 
x Use of the informaƟon system indicates consent to monitoring and 
recording; 
AC-8 b. System Use 
NoƟﬁcaƟon 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to retain the noƟﬁcaƟon message 
or banner on the screen unƟl users acknowledge the usage 
condiƟons and take explicit acƟons to log on to or further access the 
informaƟon system 
AC-8 c. System Use 
NoƟﬁcaƟon 
x Conﬁgure the publicly-available informaƟon system to: 
x Display system use informaƟon [at iniƟal entry], before granƟng 
further access; 
x Display references, if any, to monitoring, recording, or audiƟng that 
are consistent with privacy accommodaƟons for such systems that 
generally prohibit those acƟviƟes; and 
x Include a descripƟon of the authorized uses of the system 
AC-10 Concurrent Session 
Control 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to limits the number of concurrent 
sessions for each [system account] to [one] 
AC-11 
a. 
Session Lock 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to prevent further access to the 
system by iniƟaƟng a session lock aOer [15 minutes] of inacƟvity or 
upon receiving a request from a user 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 91 ---
91 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-11 
b. 
Session Lock 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to retain the session lock unƟl 
the user reestablishes access using established idenƟﬁcaƟon and 
authenƟcaƟon procedures 
AC-11 
(1) 
Session Lock 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to conceal, via the session lock, 
informaƟon previously visible on the display with a publicly 
viewable image 
AC-12 Session 
TerminaƟon 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to automaƟcally terminate a 
user session aOer [30 minutes of inacƟvity or loss of connecƟon] 
AC-14 
b. 
PermiƩed AcƟons 
without 
IdenƟﬁcaƟon or 
AuthenƟcaƟon 
x Document and provide supporƟng raƟonale in the security plan for 
the informaƟon system, user acƟons not requiring idenƟﬁcaƟon or 
authenƟcaƟon 
AC-17 
a. 
Remote Access 
x Establish and document usage restricƟons, conﬁguraƟon/
connecƟon requirements, and implementaƟon guidance for each 
type of remote access allowed 
AC-17 
b. 
Remote Access 
x Authorize remote access to the informaƟon system prior to 
allowing such connecƟons 
AC-17 
(1) 
Remote Access 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to monitor and control remote 
access methods
AC-17 
(2) 
Remote Access 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to implement cryptographic 
mechanisms to protect the conﬁdenƟality and integrity of remote 
access sessions 
AC-17 
(3) 
Remote Access 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to route all remote accesses 
through [, in compliance with Trusted Internet ConnecƟon 
requirements, a limited number of] managed network access 
control points 
AC-17 
(4) a. 
Remote Access 
x Authorize the execuƟon of privileged commands and access to 
security-relevant informaƟon via remote access only for 
[compelling operaƟonal needs aOer consultaƟon with the ISSO] 
AC-17 
(4) b. 
Remote Access 
x Document the raƟonale for such access in the security plan for the 
informaƟon system 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 92 ---
92 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-18 
a. 
Wireless Access 
x Establish usage restricƟons, conﬁguraƟon/connecƟon requirements, 
and implementaƟon guidance for wireless access 
AC-18 
b. 
Wireless Access 
x Authorize wireless access to the informaƟon system prior to allowing 
such connecƟons
AC-18 
(1) 
Wireless Access 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to protect wireless access to the 
system using authenƟcaƟon of [users, devices, or both as necessary,] 
and encrypƟon 
AC-18 
(4) 
Wireless Access 
x IdenƟfy and explicitly authorize users allowed to independently 
conﬁgure wireless networking capabiliƟes 
AC-18 
(5) 
Wireless Access 
x Select radio antennas and calibrate transmission power levels to 
reduce the probability that usable signals can be received outside of 
organizaƟon-controlled boundaries 
AC-19 
a. 
Access Control for 
Mobile Devices 
x Establish usage restricƟons, conﬁguraƟon requirements, connecƟon 
requirements, and implementaƟon guidance for organizaƟon-
controlled mobile devices 
AC-19 
b. 
Access Control for 
Mobile Devices 
x Authorize the connecƟon of mobile devices to organizaƟonal 
informaƟon systems 
AC-19 
(5) 
Access Control for 
Mobile Devices 
x Employ [full-device encrypƟon] to protect the conﬁdenƟality and 
integrity of informaƟon on [mobile computers / devices that carry 
sensiƟve agency data] 
AC-20 
(2) 
Use of External 
InformaƟon 
Systems 
x [Restrict] the use of organizaƟon-controlled portable storage devices 
by authorized individuals on external informaƟon systems 
AC-20 
(3) 
Use of External 
InformaƟon 
Systems 
x [Prohibit] the use of non-organizaƟonally owned informaƟon 
systems, system components, or devices to process, store, or 
transmit organizaƟonal informaƟon 
AC-21 
a. 
InformaƟon Sharing x Facilitate informaƟon sharing by enabling authorized users to 
determine whether access authorizaƟons assigned to the sharing 
partner match the access restricƟons on the informaƟon for 
[circumstances where user discreƟon is required for sharing 
sensiƟve informaƟon] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 93 ---
93 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AC-21 
b. 
InformaƟon Sharing 
x Employ [automated mechanisms or manual processes] to assist 
users in making informaƟon sharing/collaboraƟon decisions 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A.  Compliance: The requirements imposed by this [Agency] security policy are mandatory for all employees and 
contractors.  This policy uses the plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following 
convenƟon is used: 
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon. 
B.  Enforcement:  The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the CISO, an [Agency] supervisor, manager, associate director, or 
oﬃce director, as appropriate.  ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] 
informaƟon and informaƟon systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency 
disciplinary procedures, and potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.  
C.  ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs. 
8. Contact InformaƟon 
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes secƟon X.X and all subsecƟons of the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy and secƟon X of 
the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy Addendum. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 94 ---
94 
A.1 
A.1.4 System Maintenance Policy  
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy provides requirements for the performance of maintenance on informaƟon systems by authorized 
personnel in a secure manner. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 201423 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 200624 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget Circular A-13025 
D. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 426 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security controls as deﬁned in NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-53 and 
assigns programmaƟc responsibility to speciﬁc oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the security 
control baseline for informaƟon systems to more closely align security requirements with [Agency]’s mission and 
business requirements and environments of operaƟon may be appropriate. 
4. DeﬁniƟons27 
A. Account Manager: The Account Manager is responsible for granƟng proper access to [Agency] informaƟon 
systems through informaƟon system accounts.  This role is oOen held by system administrators, but it can also 
be held by members of the business oﬃce. 
B. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer (ISSO): An individual with the detailed knowledge and experƟse required to 
manage the security aspects of an informaƟon system.  The ISSO is the principal advisor for the System Owner 
to obtain guidance in security maƩers and support the disseminaƟon of security requirements.  The ISSO role is 
held by informaƟon security specialists in [Agency] Cybersecurity and provides independent review and 
oversight of security processes involving the design, development, and implementaƟon of informaƟon systems.
C. Infrastructure Manager (IM): Manages the network or datacenter that handles [Agency] applicaƟons or data, at 
all locaƟons where it is maintained, and is responsible for providing in-depth informaƟon security support for 
[Agency]’s infrastructure. 
23hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
24hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
25hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
26hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
27As applicable to this policy.  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 95 ---
95 
D. System Owner (SO): The program manager responsible for the procurement, development, integraƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, operaƟon, maintenance, and disposal of an informaƟon system.  The SO is responsible for 
saƟsfying the [Agency] mission and compliance with informaƟon security requirements of an informaƟon 
system. 
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
Account Managers must: 
A. Disable authenƟcators for maintenance accounts unƟl required to perform maintenance. 
System Owners must: 
A. Complete rouƟne preventaƟve and regular maintenance acƟviƟes without adversely aﬀecƟng system security or 
operaƟons. 
B. Follow conﬁguraƟon management and change control processes for maintenance acƟviƟes. 
C. Specify informaƟon system components that, when not operaƟonal, result in increased risk to the organizaƟon, 
individuals, or the NaƟon because the security funcƟonality intended by that component is not being provided.  
Security-criƟcal components include: ﬁrewalls, guards, gateways, intrusion detecƟon systems, audit 
repositories, authenƟcaƟon servers, and intrusion prevenƟon systems. 
D. Restrict maintenance acƟviƟes to a list of authorized maintenance organizaƟons or personnel. 
E. Obtain approval from the Infrastructure Manager prior to removing system components from [Agency] faciliƟes 
for oﬀ-site maintenance or repairs. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described above, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set of baseline 
security controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST Federal InformaƟon 
Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and the high impact security control baseline deﬁned in Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-
53 Rev. 4.  [Agency]-speciﬁc security requirements are speciﬁed within brackets ('[. . .]') within the control 
requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security controls is subject to the control tailoring process in 
accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, consistent with FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and 
approved through the CISO's, or CISO's designee's, signature of the system security plan. 
A.1 
A. The Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-1 a. System 
Maintenance Policy 
and Procedures 
x Develop, document, and disseminate to [Project Managers, 
InformaƟon Security Oﬃcers]: 
x A system maintenance policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, 
responsibiliƟes, management commitment, coordinaƟon among 
organizaƟonal enƟƟes, and compliance; and 
x Procedures to facilitate the implementaƟon of the system 
maintenance policy and associated system maintenance controls 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 96 ---
96 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-1 b. System 
Maintenance Policy 
and Procedures 
x Review and update the current: 
x System maintenance policy [at least every 3 years]; and 
x System maintenance procedures [at least every 2 years] 
MA-2 c. Controlled 
Maintenance 
x Require that [the Infrastructure Manager] explicitly approve the 
removal of the informaƟon system or system components from 
organizaƟonal faciliƟes for oﬀ-site maintenance or repairs 
B. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-2 e. Controlled 
Maintenance 
x Check all potenƟally impacted security controls to verify that the 
controls are sƟll funcƟoning properly following maintenance or 
repair acƟons 
MA-4 
(2) 
Nonlocal 
Maintenance | 
Document Nonlocal 
Maintenance 
x Document in the security plan for the informaƟon system, the 
policies and procedures for the establishment and use of nonlocal 
maintenance and diagnosƟc connecƟons. 
C. System Owners must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-2 a. Controlled 
Maintenance 
x Schedule, perform, document, and review records of maintenance 
and repairs on informaƟon system components in accordance with 
manufacturer or vendor speciﬁcaƟons and/or organizaƟonal 
requirements. 
MA-2 b. Controlled 
Maintenance 
x Approve and monitor all maintenance acƟviƟes, whether 
performed on site or remotely and whether the equipment is 
serviced on site or removed to another locaƟon. 
MA-2 d. Controlled 
Maintenance 
x SaniƟze equipment to remove all informaƟon from associated 
media prior to removal from organizaƟonal faciliƟes for oﬀ-site 
maintenance or repairs. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 97 ---
97 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-2 e. Controlled 
Maintenance 
x Include [date and Ɵme of maintenance; name of the individual 
performing the maintenance; name of escort, if necessary; 
descripƟon of the maintenance performed; and, for Moderate and 
High systems, the list of equipment removed or replaced (including 
idenƟﬁcaƟon numbers, if applicable)] in organizaƟonal 
maintenance records. 
MA-2 
(2) a. 
Controlled 
Maintenance | 
Automated 
Maintenance 
AcƟviƟes 
x Employ automated mechanisms to schedule, conduct, and 
document maintenance and repairs. 
MA-2 
(2) b. 
Controlled 
Maintenance | 
Automated 
Maintenance 
AcƟviƟes 
x Produce up-to date, accurate, and complete records of all 
maintenance and repair acƟons requested, scheduled, in process, 
and completed. 
MA-3 
Maintenance Tools
x Approve, control, and monitor informaƟon system maintenance 
tools. 
MA-3 
(1) 
Maintenance Tools 
| Inspect Tools 
x Inspect the maintenance tools carried into a facility by 
maintenance personnel for improper or unauthorized 
MA-3 
(2) 
Maintenance Tools 
| Inspect Media 
x Check media containing diagnosƟc and test programs for malicious 
code before the media are used in the informaƟon system. 
MA-3 
(3) 
Maintenance Tools 
| Prevent 
Unauthorized 
Removal 
x Prevent the unauthorized removal of maintenance equipment 
containing organizaƟonal informaƟon by: 
x Verifying that there is no organizaƟonal informaƟon contained on 
the equipment; 
x SaniƟzing or destroying the equipment; 
x Retaining the equipment within the facility; or 
x Obtaining an exempƟon from [the Chief InformaƟon Security 
Oﬃcer] explicitly authorizing removal of the equipment from the 
facility 
MA-4 a. Nonlocal 
Maintenance 
x Approve and monitor nonlocal maintenance and diagnosƟc 
acƟviƟes. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 98 ---
98 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-4 b. Nonlocal 
Maintenance 
x Allow the use of nonlocal maintenance and diagnosƟc tools only as 
consistent with organizaƟonal policy and documented in the 
security plan for the informaƟon system. 
MA-4 c. Nonlocal 
Maintenance 
x Employ strong authenƟcators in the establishment of nonlocal 
maintenance and diagnosƟc sessions. 
MA-4 d. Nonlocal 
Maintenance 
x Maintain records for nonlocal maintenance and diagnosƟc 
acƟviƟes. 
MA-4 e. Nonlocal 
Maintenance 
x Terminate session and network connecƟons when nonlocal 
maintenance is completed. 
MA-4 
(3) 
Nonlocal 
Maintenance | 
Comparable 
Security / 
SaniƟzaƟon 
x Require that nonlocal maintenance and diagnosƟc services be 
performed from an informaƟon system that implements a security 
capability comparable to the capability implemented on the 
system being serviced; or 
x Remove the component to be serviced from the informaƟon 
system and prior to nonlocal maintenance or diagnosƟc services, 
saniƟze the component (with regard to organizaƟonal informaƟon) 
before removal from organizaƟonal faciliƟes, and aOer the service 
is performed, inspect and saniƟze the component (with regard to 
potenƟally malicious soOware) before reconnecƟng the 
MA-5 a. Maintenance 
Personnel 
x Establish a process for maintenance personnel authorizaƟon and 
maintain a list of authorized maintenance organizaƟons or 
personnel. 
MA-5 b. Maintenance 
Personnel 
x Ensure that non-escorted personnel performing maintenance on 
the informaƟon system have required access authorizaƟons. 
MA-5 c. Maintenance 
Personnel 
x Designate organizaƟonal personnel with required access 
authorizaƟons and technical competence to supervise the 
maintenance acƟviƟes of personnel who do not possess the 
required access authorizaƟons. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 99 ---
99 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
MA-5 
(1) a. 
Maintenance 
Personnel | 
Individuals without 
Appropriate Access 
x Implement procedures for the use of maintenance personnel that 
lack appropriate security clearances or are not U.S. ciƟzens, that 
include the following requirements: 
x Maintenance personnel who do not have needed access 
authorizaƟons, clearances, or formal access approvals are escorted 
and supervised during the performance of maintenance and 
diagnosƟc acƟviƟes on the informaƟon system by approved 
organizaƟonal personnel who are fully cleared, have appropriate 
access authorizaƟons, and are technically qualiﬁed; 
x Prior to iniƟaƟng maintenance or diagnosƟc acƟviƟes by personnel 
who do not have needed access authorizaƟons, clearances or 
formal access approvals, all volaƟle informaƟon storage 
components within the informaƟon system are saniƟzed and all 
nonvolaƟle storage media are removed or physically disconnected 
from the system and secured 
MA-5 
(1) b. 
Maintenance 
Personnel | 
Individuals without 
Appropriate Access 
x Develop and implement alternate security safeguards in the event 
an informaƟon system component cannot be saniƟzed, removed, 
or disconnected from the system. 
MA-6 
Timely 
Maintenance 
x Obtain maintenance support and/or spare parts for [criƟcal 
informaƟon system components and/or key informaƟon 
technology components deﬁned by SOs] within [72 hours] of 
failure. 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A. Compliance: This [Agency] security policy is mandatory for all employees and contractors.  This policy uses the 
plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following convenƟon is used: 
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon. 
B. Enforcement: The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the Cybersecurity Program; see SecƟon 8 for contact informaƟon.  
ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 100 ---
100 
A.1 
systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency disciplinary procedures, and 
potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs. 
8. Contact InformaƟon 
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy Handbook secƟon X.X.   
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 101 ---
101 
A.1 
A.1.5 Continuous Monitoring Policy 
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy idenƟﬁes the requirements for maintaining ongoing awareness of informaƟon security and privacy 
vulnerabiliƟes and threats to support organizaƟonal risk management decisions. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 201428 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 200629
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget Circular A-13030 
D. NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 431 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security and privacy controls as deﬁned in NIST 800-53 and assigns programmaƟc responsibility to 
speciﬁc oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the control baseline for informaƟon systems to more 
closely align security and privacy requirements with [Agency]’s mission and business requirements and environments 
of operaƟon may be appropriate. 
4. DeﬁniƟons32 
A. Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer (CISO): The CISO carries out the responsibiliƟes of the Chief InformaƟon 
Oﬃcer (CIO) under the Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (FISMA). 
B. Chief Privacy Oﬃcer (CPO): The CPO is responsible for ensuring compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and managing privacy risks.  The CPO reviews privacy risks throughout the lifecycle of 
informaƟon. 
C. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer (ISSO): An individual with the detailed knowledge and experƟse required to 
manage the security aspects of an informaƟon system.  The ISSO is the principal advisor for the System Owner 
to obtain guidance in security maƩers and support the disseminaƟon of security requirements.  The ISSO role 
is held by informaƟon security specialists in [Agency] Cybersecurity and provides independent review and 
oversight of security processes involving the design, development, and implementaƟon of informaƟon 
systems. 
28hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
29hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
30hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
31hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
32As applicable to this policy.  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 102 ---
102 
D. Infrastructure Manager (IM): Manages the network or datacenter that handles [Agency] applicaƟons or data, at 
all locaƟons where it is maintained, and is responsible for providing in-depth informaƟon security support for 
[Agency]’s infrastructure. 
E. System Owner (SO): The program manager responsible for the procurement, development, integraƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, operaƟon, maintenance, and disposal of an informaƟon system.  The SO is responsible for 
saƟsfying the [Agency] mission and compliance with informaƟon security and privacy requirements of an 
informaƟon system. 
F. Security Control Assessor (SCA): An individual, group, or organizaƟon responsible for conducƟng comprehensive 
assessments of the security controls employed within an informaƟon system to determine their overall 
eﬀecƟveness. 
G. Security OperaƟons Center (SOC): The SOC is responsible for the development, implementaƟon, and maintenance 
of [Agency]'s Incident Response Plan.  The SOC is the primary component of [Agency]'s incident response 
capabiliƟes, including monitoring, handling, and response, and supports the SO with technical security support. 
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
The Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer (CISO) must:
A. Deﬁne roles and responsibiliƟes for carrying out the security acƟviƟes documented within the conƟnuous 
monitoring strategy. 
The Chief Privacy Oﬃcer (CPO) must: 
B. Deﬁne roles and responsibiliƟes for carrying out the privacy acƟviƟes documented within the conƟnuous 
monitoring strategy. 
InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers must: 
C. Conduct ongoing security status monitoring of the system inventory and plan of acƟon and milestones metrics for 
each system within his or her porƞolio in accordance with the conƟnuous monitoring strategy. 
D. Use Federal and [Agency] standards to evaluate risks and provide recommendaƟons to manage risks idenƟﬁed 
through the conƟnuous monitoring program. 
Infrastructure Managers must: 
E. Conduct ongoing security status monitoring of hardware asset management and soOware asset management 
metrics in accordance with the conƟnuous monitoring strategy. 
System Owners must: 
F. Implement response acƟons to address results of the analysis of security-related and privacy-related informaƟon 
idenƟﬁed by the conƟnuous monitoring program for each system within his or her porƞolio. 
G. Review and update privacy documentaƟon in accordance with the frequencies deﬁned in the conƟnuous 
monitoring strategy. 
Security Control Assessors must: 
A.1 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 103 ---
103 
H. Conduct ongoing assessments of security and privacy controls in accordance with the conƟnuous monitoring 
strategy.
The Security OperaƟons Center must: 
I. Conduct ongoing security status monitoring of conﬁguraƟon seƫngs management and vulnerability management 
metrics in accordance with the conƟnuous monitoring strategy. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described within this policy, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set 
of baseline security and privacy controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST 
Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and the high impact security control baseline deﬁned in Special 
PublicaƟon (SP) 800-53 Rev. 4.  Parameters have been deﬁned to meet [Agency] security and privacy requirements 
and are included within brackets ('[. . .]') within the control requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security 
controls is subject to the control tailoring process in accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, 
consistent with FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and approved through the CISO's, or CISO's designee's, signature of the 
system security plan.  The selecƟon of privacy controls is subject to the CPO's, or CPO's designee's, signature of the 
system security plan. 
 
A. Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer Requirements: 
 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CA-7 a. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x Establishment of [agency-level and system-level informaƟon security 
metrics for each security capability] to be monitored 
CA-7 b. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x Establishment of [frequencies for each informaƟon security metric] 
for monitoring and [risk-based, cost-eﬀecƟve frequencies] for 
assessments supporƟng such monitoring 
CA-7 c. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x Ongoing security control assessments in accordance with the 
organizaƟonal conƟnuous monitoring strategy 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 104 ---
104 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CA-7 d. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x Ongoing security status monitoring of organizaƟon-deﬁned metrics 
in accordance with the organizaƟonal conƟnuous monitoring 
strategy 
CA-7 e. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x CorrelaƟon and analysis of security-related informaƟon generated 
by assessments and monitoring 
CA-7 f. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x Response acƟons to address results of the analysis of security-
related informaƟon 
CA-7 g. ConƟnuous 
Monitoring 
x Develop a conƟnuous monitoring strategy and implements a 
conƟnuous monitoring program that includes: 
x ReporƟng the security status of organizaƟon and the informaƟon 
system to [the CIO for the organizaƟon and Authorizing Oﬃcial for 
the system] [at least quarterly] 
CA-7 (1) ConƟnuous 
Monitoring | 
Independent 
Assessment 
x Employ assessors or assessment teams with [a level of 
independence deﬁned within the conƟnuous monitoring strategy] 
to monitor the security controls in the informaƟon system on an 
ongoing basis 
B. Security Control Assessor Requirements: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
AR-4 
Privacy Monitoring 
and AudiƟng 
x Monitor and audit privacy controls and internal privacy policy [in 
accordance with the conƟnuous monitoring strategy] to ensure 
eﬀecƟve implementaƟon.
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 105 ---
105 
A.1 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A. Compliance: The requirements imposed by this [Agency] security policy are mandatory for all employees and 
contractors.  This policy uses the plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following 
convenƟon is used:
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and 
x “should” for a recommendaƟon.
B. Enforcement: The CISO is responsible for enforcement and compliance of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the CISO, an [Agency] supervisor, manager, associate director or 
oﬃce director, as appropriate.  ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] 
informaƟon and informaƟon systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency 
disciplinary procedures, and potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.   
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs.  
The CISO will direct any requests for excepƟons to the privacy provisions within the policy to the CPO.
8. Contact InformaƟon 
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes secƟon X.X.X of the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 106 ---
106 
A.1 
A.1.6 Malicious Code Policy 
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy provides requirements for protecƟons against viruses, worms, Trojan horses, spyware, and other forms of 
malicious code. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 201433 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards (FIPS) PublicaƟon 200, March 200634 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-13035 
D. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology (NIST), Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 436 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security controls as deﬁned in NIST 800-53 and assigns programmaƟc responsibility to speciﬁc 
oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the security control baseline for informaƟon systems to more 
closely align security requirements with [Agency]’s mission and business requirements and environments of 
operaƟon may be appropriate. 
4. DeﬁniƟons37 
A. Infrastructure Manager (IM): Manages the network or datacenter that handles [Agency] applicaƟons or data, at 
all locaƟons where it is maintained, and is responsible for providing in-depth informaƟon security support for 
[Agency]’s infrastructure. 
B. Security OperaƟons Center (SOC): The SOC is responsible for the development, implementaƟon, and 
maintenance of [Agency]'s Incident Response Plan.  The SOC is the primary component of [Agency]'s incident 
response capabiliƟes, including monitoring, handling, and response, and supports the System Owner with 
technical security support. 
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
Infrastructure Managers must: 
A. Deploy malicious code protecƟon mechanisms at entry and exit points into the network infrastructure, including: 
33hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
34hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
35hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
36hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
37As applicable to this policy.  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 107 ---
107 
A.1 
remote access servers, proxy servers, web servers, workstaƟons, and mobile devices.
The Security OperaƟons Center must: 
B. Scan hardware assets for malware prior to authorizing a remote access connecƟon to the network. 
C. Block outbound connecƟons from the network to known phishing websites and IP addresses. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described above, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set of baseline 
security controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST FIPS 200 and the high impact 
security control baseline deﬁned in Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-53 Rev. 4.  [Agency]-speciﬁc security requirements are 
speciﬁed within brackets ('[. . .]') within the control requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security controls is 
subject to the control tailoring process in accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, consistent with 
FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and approved through the Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer’s (CISO), or CISO's 
designee's, signature of the system security plan. 
A. Infrastructure Managers must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
SI-3 a. Malicious Code 
ProtecƟon 
x Employ malicious code protecƟon mechanisms at informaƟon 
system entry and exit points to detect and eradicate malicious 
code 
SI-8 a. Spam ProtecƟon 
x Employ spam protecƟon mechanisms at informaƟon system entry 
and exit points to detect and take acƟon on unsolicited messages 
SI-16 
Memory ProtecƟon 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to implement [data execuƟon 
prevenƟon and address space layout randomizaƟon] to protect its 
memory from unauthorized code execuƟon 
B. The Security OperaƟons Center must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
SI-3 b. Malicious Code 
ProtecƟon 
x Update malicious code protecƟon mechanisms whenever new 
releases are available in accordance with organizaƟonal 
conﬁguraƟon management policy and procedures 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 108 ---
108 
A.1 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A. Compliance: The requirements imposed by this [Agency] security policy are mandatory for all employees and 
contractors.  This policy uses the plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following 
convenƟon is used: 
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon. 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
SI-3 c. 
1. 
Malicious Code 
ProtecƟon 
x Conﬁgure malicious code protecƟon mechanisms to: 
x Perform periodic scans of the informaƟon system [at least weekly] 
and real-Ɵme scans of ﬁles from external sources at [endpoints for 
web traﬃc and network entry / exit points for e-mail traﬃc] as the 
ﬁles are downloaded, opened, or executed in accordance with 
organizaƟonal security policy; 
SI-3 c. 
2. 
Malicious Code 
ProtecƟon 
x Conﬁgure malicious code protecƟon mechanisms to: 
x [block malicious code or quaranƟne malicious code and send an alert 
to an administrator] in response to malicious code detecƟon 
SI-3 d. Malicious Code 
ProtecƟon 
x Address the receipt of false posiƟves during malicious code 
detecƟon and eradicaƟon and the resulƟng potenƟal impact on the 
availability of the informaƟon system 
SI-3 (2) Malicious Code 
ProtecƟon | 
AutomaƟc Updates 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to automaƟcally update malicious 
code protecƟon mechanisms 
SI-8 b. Spam ProtecƟon 
x Update spam protecƟon mechanisms when new releases are 
available in accordance with organizaƟonal conﬁguraƟon 
management policy and procedures 
SI-8 (1) Spam ProtecƟon | 
Central 
Management 
x Centrally manage spam protecƟon mechanisms 
SI-8 (2) Spam ProtecƟon | 
AutomaƟc Updates 
x Conﬁgure the informaƟon system to automaƟcally update spam 
protecƟon mechanisms 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 109 ---
109 
A.1 
B. Enforcement:  The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the Cybersecurity Program; see SecƟon 8 for contact informaƟon.  
ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon 
systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency disciplinary procedures, and 
potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.  
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs. 
8. Contact InformaƟon
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes the following secƟons of the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy: 
x X.X.X Malicious Code ProtecƟon (SI-3); and 
x X.X.X Spam ProtecƟon (SI-8). 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 110 ---
110 
A.1 
A.1.7 Incident Response Policy 
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve 
This policy provides requirements for establishing an operaƟonal incident handling capability for [Agency] informaƟon 
systems that includes adequate preparaƟon, detecƟon, analysis, containment, recovery, and user response acƟviƟes. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 201438 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 200639 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-13040 
D. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-17-1241 
E. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 442 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security and privacy controls as deﬁned in NIST 800-53 and assigns programmaƟc responsibility to 
speciﬁc oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the control baseline for informaƟon systems to more 
closely align security and privacy requirements with [Agency]’s mission and business requirements and environments 
of operaƟon may be appropriate. 
4. DeﬁniƟons43 
A. Business Program Manager (BPM): The BPM has oversight of the informaƟon stored, processed, or transmiƩed 
by the supporƟng informaƟon system. The BPM represents the program oﬃce and the customers during the life 
of IT projects and coordinates the business needs with the System Owner. The BPM is kept apprised of the 
progress of the security authorizaƟon throughout the process. 
B. Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer (CISO): The CISO carries out the responsibiliƟes of the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer 
(CIO) under the Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (FISMA). 
C. Chief Privacy Oﬃcer (CPO): The CPO is responsible for ensuring compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and managing privacy risks.  The CPO reviews privacy risks throughout the lifecycle of 
informaƟon. 
38hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
39hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
40hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
41hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/m-17-12_0.pdf 
42hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf 
43As applicable to this policy. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 111 ---
111 
D. Incident: The act of violaƟng an explicit or implied security policy.44 
E. InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcer (ISSO): An individual with the detailed knowledge and experƟse 
required to manage the security aspects of an informaƟon system.  The ISSO is the principal advisor for 
the System Owner to obtain guidance in security maƩers and support the disseminaƟon of security 
requirements.  The ISSO role is held by informaƟon security specialists in [Agency] Cybersecurity and 
provides independent review and oversight of security processes involving the design, development, and 
implementaƟon of informaƟon systems. 
F. Security OperaƟons Center (SOC): The SOC is responsible for the development, implementaƟon, and 
maintenance of [Agency]'s Incident Response Plan.  The SOC is the primary component of [Agency]'s 
incident response capabiliƟes, including monitoring, handling, and response, and supports the SO with 
technical security support. 
G. System Owner (SO): The program manager responsible for the procurement, development, integraƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, operaƟon, maintenance, and disposal of an informaƟon system.  The SO is responsible for 
saƟsfying the [Agency] mission and compliance with informaƟon security requirements of an informaƟon 
system.
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
All [Agency] informaƟon system users must: 
A. Report all suspected incidents to the SOC [CONTACT REMOVED].   
Business Program Managers must: 
B. NoƟfy business partners with established data sharing agreements of impacts to informaƟon systems as a 
result of incident response acƟviƟes, such as access to informaƟon systems being revoked or informaƟon 
systems being taken oﬀ line.   
The Security OperaƟons Center must: 
C. IniƟate a Ɵcket and noƟfy appropriate parƟes upon receipt of a suspected incident. 
D. Report incidents internally and to United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT), in 
accordance with the US-CERT Federal Incident NoƟﬁcaƟon Guidelines and the [Agency] Cyber ProtecƟon 
and Defense Manual.  Program Oﬃces must not send incident reports directly to US-CERT. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described above, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set of 
baseline security and privacy controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST 
Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and the high impact security control baseline deﬁned in 
Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-53 Rev. 4.  [Agency]-speciﬁc security and privacy requirements are speciﬁed within 
brackets ('[. . .]') within the control requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security controls is subject to 
the control tailoring process in accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, consistent with 
FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and approved through the CISO's, or CISO's designee's, signature of the system 
A.1 
44hƩps://www.us-cert.gov/government-users/compliance-and-reporƟng/incident-deﬁniƟon  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 112 ---
112 
A.1 
security plan.  The selecƟon of privacy controls is subject to the CPO's, or CPO's designee's, signature of the system 
security plan. 
A. The Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer must: 
NIST #
CONTROL NAME
REQUIREMENT
IR-1 a. Incident Response 
Policy and 
Procedures 
x Develop, document, and disseminate to [Project Managers, 
InformaƟon System Security Oﬃcers]: 
x An incident response policy that addresses purpose, scope, roles, 
responsibiliƟes, management commitment, coordinaƟon among 
organizaƟonal enƟƟes, and compliance; and 
x Procedures to facilitate the implementaƟon of the incident response 
policy and associated incident response controls 
IR-1 b. Incident Response 
Policy and 
Procedures 
x Review and update the current: 
x Incident response policy [at least every 3 years]; and 
x Incident response procedures [at least every 2 years] 
IR-6 a. Incident ReporƟng 
x Require personnel to report suspected security incidents to the 
organizaƟonal incident response capability within [immediately (no 
more than 30 minutes aOer becoming aware of the incident)] 
B. The Chief Privacy Oﬃcer must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
SE-2 a. Privacy Incident 
Response 
x Develop and implement a Privacy Incident Response Plan 
SE-2 b. Privacy Incident 
Response 
x Provide an organized and eﬀecƟve response to privacy incidents in 
accordance with the organizaƟonal Privacy Incident Response Plan 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 113 ---
113 
A.1 
C. The Security OperaƟons Center must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
IR-3 
Incident  Response 
TesƟng 
x Test the incident response capability for the informaƟon system [at 
least annually] using [scenario based exercises] to determine the 
incident response eﬀecƟveness and documents the results 
IR-3 (2) Incident  Response 
TesƟng | 
CoordinaƟon with 
Related Plans 
x Coordinate incident response tesƟng with organizaƟonal elements 
responsible for related plans 
IR-4 a. Incident Handling 
x Implement an incident handling capability for security incidents that 
includes preparaƟon, detecƟon and analysis, containment, 
eradicaƟon, and recovery 
IR-4 b. Incident Handling 
x Coordinate incident handling acƟviƟes with conƟngency planning 
acƟviƟes 
IR-4 c. Incident Handling 
x Incorporate lessons learned from ongoing incident handling acƟviƟes 
into incident response procedures, training, and tesƟng/exercises, 
and implements the resulƟng changes accordingly 
IR-4 (1) Incident Handling | 
Automated Incident 
Handling Processes 
x Employ automated mechanisms to support the incident handling 
process 
IR-4 (4) Incident Handling | 
InformaƟon 
CorrelaƟon 
x Correlate incident informaƟon and individual incident responses to 
achieve an organizaƟon-wide perspecƟve on incident awareness and 
response 
IR-5 
Incident Monitoring x Track and document informaƟon system security incidents 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 114 ---
114 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
IR-5 (1) Incident Monitoring 
| Automated 
Tracking / Data 
CollecƟon / 
Analysis 
x Employ automated mechanisms to assist in the tracking of security 
incidents and in the collecƟon and analysis of incident informaƟon 
IR-6 b. Incident ReporƟng 
x Report security incident informaƟon to [[Agency] personnel, 
interagency partners, and the public per the [Agency] Cyber 
ProtecƟon and Defense Manual] 
IR-6 (1) Incident ReporƟng 
| Automated 
ReporƟng 
x Employ automated mechanisms to assist in the reporƟng of security 
incidents 
IR-7 
Incident Response 
Assistance 
x Provide an incident response support resource, integral to the 
organizaƟonal incident response capability that oﬀers advice and 
assistance to users of the informaƟon system for the handling and 
reporƟng of security incidents 
IR-7 (1) Incident Response 
Assistance | 
AutomaƟon 
Support for 
Availability of 
InformaƟon / 
x Employ automated mechanisms to increase the availability of 
incident response-related informaƟon and support 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 115 ---
115 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
IR-8 a. Incident Response 
Plan 
x Develop an incident response plan that: 
x Provides the organizaƟon with a roadmap for implemenƟng its 
incident response capability; 
x Describes the structure and organizaƟon of the incident response 
capability;
x Provides a high-level approach for how the incident response 
capability ﬁts into the overall organizaƟon; 
x Meets the unique requirements of the organizaƟon, which relate to 
mission, size, structure, and funcƟons; 
x Deﬁnes reportable incidents; 
x Provides metrics for measuring the incident response capability 
within the organizaƟon; 
x Deﬁnes the resources and management support needed to 
eﬀecƟvely maintain and mature an incident response capability; and 
x Is reviewed and approved by [CISO] 
IR-8 b. Incident Response 
Plan 
x Distribute copies of the incident response plan to [the CIO, SOs, 
ISSOs, and addiƟonal staﬀ as necessary] 
IR-8 c. Incident Response 
Plan 
x Review the incident response plan [Quarterly] 
IR-8 d. Incident Response 
Plan 
x Update the incident response plan to address system/organizaƟonal 
changes or problems encountered during plan implementaƟon, 
execuƟon, or tesƟng [at least Quarterly] 
IR-8 e. Incident Response 
Plan 
x Communicate incident response plan changes to [the CIO, CISO, SOs, 
ISSOs, and other impacted staﬀ quarterly] 
IR-8 f. 
Incident Response 
Plan 
x Protect the incident response plan from unauthorized disclosure and 
modiﬁcaƟon 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 116 ---
116 
A.1 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons
A. Compliance: The requirements imposed by this [Agency] security policy are mandatory for all employees and 
contractors.  This policy uses the plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following 
convenƟon is used:
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon.
B. Enforcement:  The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the Cybersecurity Program; see SecƟon 8 for contact informaƟon.  
ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon 
systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency disciplinary procedures, and 
potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.  
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs.  
The CISO will direct any requests for excepƟons to the privacy provisions within the policy to the CPO. 
8. Contact InformaƟon 
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes secƟons X.X, X.X.X, and X.X.X through X.X.X of the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy. 
 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 117 ---
117 
A.1 
A.1.8 Contingency Planning Policy 
1. Purpose/ObjecƟve
This policy provides requirements for the recovery of mission and business services aOer a disrupƟon to the 
informaƟon system. 
2. AuthoriƟes 
The authoriƟes for this policy include: 
A. Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (P.L. 113-283), December 201445 
B. Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, March 200646 
C. Oﬃce of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-13047 
D. NaƟonal InsƟtute for Standards and Technology, Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Revision 448 
E. NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special PublicaƟon 800-34 Revision 1, May 2010, 
ConƟngency Planning Guide for Federal InformaƟon Systems49 
3. Scope
This policy applies to all [Agency] employees and contractors.  This [Agency] policy sets forth the baseline 
requirements for security controls as deﬁned in NIST 800-53 and assigns programmaƟc responsibility to speciﬁc 
oﬃces and posiƟons.  As described below, tailoring of the security control baseline for informaƟon systems to more 
closely align security requirements with [Agency]’s mission and business requirements and environments of operaƟon 
may be appropriate.  
4. DeﬁniƟons50 
A. Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer (CISO): The CISO carries out the responsibiliƟes of the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer 
(CIO) under the Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 (FISMA). 
B. Infrastructure Manager (IM): Manages the network or datacenter that handles [Agency] applicaƟons or data, at 
all locaƟons where it is maintained, and is responsible for providing in-depth informaƟon security support for 
[Agency]’s infrastructure. 
C. System Owner (SO): The program manager responsible for the procurement, development, integraƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, operaƟon, maintenance, and disposal of an informaƟon system.  The SO is responsible for 
45hƩps://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113publ283.pdf 
46hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/ﬁps/ﬁps200/FIPS-200-ﬁnal-march.pdf 
47hƩps://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/omb/assets/OMB/circulars/a130/a130revised.pdf 
48hƩp://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublicaƟons/NIST.SP.800-53r4.pdf
49hƩp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/nistpubs/800-34-rev1/sp800-34-rev1_errata-Nov11-2010.pdf 
50As applicable to this policy.  
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 118 ---
118 
A.1 
saƟsfying the [Agency] mission and compliance with informaƟon security requirements of an informaƟon 
system. 
5. Roles and ResponsibiliƟes 
Infrastructure Managers must: 
A. Conduct an annual full-funcƟonal disaster recovery (DR) test on the infrastructure environment. 
B. Coordinate DR tesƟng of the infrastructure with SOs responsible for managing systems that reside on the 
infrastructure environment. 
System Owners must: 
A. Conduct a Business Impact Analysis (BIA) for the informaƟon system, in coordinaƟon with the business sponsor, 
to idenƟfy essenƟal missions and business funcƟons and associated conƟngency requirements. 
B. Conduct full-scale, funcƟonal ConƟngency Plan (CP) tesƟng in coordinaƟon with the infrastructure DR tesƟng for 
systems with high-impact availability requirements as deﬁned by the security categorizaƟon and BIA processes.  
Include reference(s) to the coordinated eﬀort in the CP test results. 
C. Conduct funcƟonal CP tesƟng, at a minimum, for systems with moderate-impact availability requirements as 
deﬁned by the security categorizaƟon and BIA processes.   
D. Conduct table-top CP tesƟng, at a minimum, for systems with low-impact availability requirements as deﬁned by 
the security categorizaƟon and BIA processes.   
E. Provide CP test results to the CISO annually for evidence and reporƟng. 
6. Policy  
In addiƟon to the roles and responsibiliƟes described above, [Agency] has idenƟﬁed the following as its set of baseline 
security controls consistent with the minimum security requirements deﬁned in the NIST Federal InformaƟon 
Processing Standards (FIPS) 200 and the high impact security control baseline deﬁned in Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-
53 Rev. 4.  [Agency]-speciﬁc security requirements are speciﬁed within brackets ('[. . .]') within the control 
requirement descripƟons.  This baseline set of security controls is subject to the control tailoring process in 
accordance with [Agency] security authorizaƟon procedures, consistent with FIPS 200 and SP 800-53 Rev. 4, and 
approved through the CISO's, or CISO's designee's, signature of the system security plan. 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 119 ---
119 
A.1 
A. The Chief InformaƟon Security Oﬃcer must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-1 a. 
ConƟngency 
Planning Policy and 
Procedures 
x Develop, document, and disseminate to [Project Managers, 
InformaƟon Security Oﬃcers]: 
x A conƟngency planning policy that addresses purpose, scope, 
roles, responsibiliƟes, management commitment, coordinaƟon 
among organizaƟonal enƟƟes, and compliance; and 
x Procedures to facilitate the implementaƟon of the conƟngency 
planning policy and associated conƟngency planning controls 
CP-1 b. 
ConƟngency 
Planning Policy and 
Procedures 
x Review and update the current: 
x ConƟngency planning policy [at least every 3 years]; and 
x ConƟngency planning procedures [at least every 2 years] 
B. Infrastructure Managers must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-8 
TelecommunicaƟon
s Services 
x Establish alternate telecommunicaƟons services including 
necessary agreements to permit the resumpƟon of [informaƟon 
system operaƟons] for essenƟal missions and business funcƟons 
within [at least 12 hours for High systems (The Ɵme frame for 
resumpƟon of essenƟal missions and business funcƟons for 
Moderate systems must be based on the Recovery Time ObjecƟve 
(RTO))] when the primary telecommunicaƟons capabiliƟes are 
unavailable at either the primary or alternate processing or 
storage sites 
CP-8 (1) 
a. 
TelecommunicaƟon
s Services | Priority 
of Service 
Provisions 
x Develop primary and alternate telecommunicaƟons service 
agreements that contain priority-of-service provisions in 
accordance with organizaƟonal availability requirements (including 
recovery Ɵme objecƟves) 
CP-8 (1) 
b. 
TelecommunicaƟon
s Services | Priority 
of Service 
Provisions 
x Request TelecommunicaƟons Service Priority for all 
telecommunicaƟons services used for naƟonal security emergency 
preparedness in the event that the primary and/or alternate 
telecommunicaƟons services are provided by a common carrier 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 120 ---
120 
A.1 
NIST #  
CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-8 (2) TelecommunicaƟons 
Services | Single 
Points of Failure 
x Obtain alternate telecommunicaƟons services to reduce the 
likelihood of sharing a single point of failure with primary 
telecommunicaƟons services 
CP-8 (3) TelecommunicaƟons 
Services | SeparaƟon 
of Primary / 
Alternate Providers 
x Obtain alternate telecommunicaƟons services from providers that 
are separated from primary service providers to reduce 
suscepƟbility to the same threats 
CP-8 (4) 
a. 
TelecommunicaƟons 
Services | Provider 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Require primary and alternate telecommunicaƟons service 
providers to have conƟngency plans 
CP-8 (4) 
b. 
TelecommunicaƟons 
Services | Provider 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Review provider conƟngency plans to ensure that the plans meet 
organizaƟonal conƟngency requirements 
CP-8 (4) 
c. 
TelecommunicaƟons 
Services | Provider 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Obtain evidence of conƟngency tesƟng/training by providers 
[annually] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 121 ---
121 
A.1 
C. System Owners must: 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-2 a. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Develop a conƟngency plan for the informaƟon system that: 
x IdenƟﬁes essenƟal missions and business funcƟons and associated 
conƟngency requirements;
x Provides recovery objecƟves, restoraƟon prioriƟes, and metrics; 
x Addresses conƟngency roles, responsibiliƟes, assigned individuals 
with contact informaƟon; 
x Addresses maintaining essenƟal missions and business funcƟons 
despite an informaƟon system disrupƟon, compromise, or failure; 
x Addresses eventual, full informaƟon system restoraƟon without 
deterioraƟon of the security safeguards originally planned and 
implemented; and 
x Is reviewed and approved by [System Owners] 
CP-2 b. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Distribute copies of the conƟngency plan to [key conƟngency 
personnel and other related organizaƟonal elements or enƟƟes] 
CP-2 c. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Coordinate conƟngency planning acƟviƟes with incident handling 
acƟviƟes 
CP-2 d. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Review the conƟngency plan for the informaƟon system [at least 
annually] 
CP-2 e. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Update the conƟngency plan to address changes to the organizaƟon, 
informaƟon system, or environment of operaƟon and problems 
encountered during conƟngency plan implementaƟon, execuƟon, or 
tesƟng 
CP-2 f. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Communicate conƟngency plan changes to [key conƟngency 
personnel and other related organizaƟonal elements or enƟƟes] 
CP-2 g. 
ConƟngency Plan 
x Protect the conƟngency plan from unauthorized disclosure and 
modiﬁcaƟon 
CP-2 (1)
ConƟngency Plan | 
Coordinate with 
x Coordinate conƟngency plan development with organizaƟonal 
elements responsible for related plans 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 122 ---
122 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-2 (2) ConƟngency Plan | 
Capacity Planning 
x Conduct capacity planning so that necessary capacity for informaƟon 
processing, telecommunicaƟons, and environmental support exists 
during conƟngency operaƟons 
CP-2 (3) ConƟngency Plan | 
Resume EssenƟal 
Missions / Business 
FuncƟons 
x Plan for the resumpƟon of essenƟal missions and business funcƟons 
within [at least 12 hours for High systems (The Ɵme frame for 
resumpƟon of essenƟal missions and business funcƟons for 
Moderate systems must be based on the Recovery Time ObjecƟve 
(RTO))] of conƟngency plan acƟvaƟon 
CP-2 (4) ConƟngency Plan | 
Resume All 
Missions / Business 
FuncƟons 
x Plan for the resumpƟon of all missions and business funcƟons within 
[the Recovery Time ObjecƟve (RTO) established within the Business 
Impact Analysis (BIA)] of conƟngency plan acƟvaƟon 
CP-2 (5) ConƟngency Plan | 
ConƟnue EssenƟal 
Missions / Business 
FuncƟons 
x Plan for the conƟnuance of essenƟal missions and business funcƟons 
with liƩle or no loss of operaƟonal conƟnuity and sustains that 
conƟnuity unƟl full informaƟon system restoraƟon at primary 
processing and/or storage sites 
CP-2 (8)
ConƟngency Plan | 
IdenƟfy CriƟcal 
Assets 
x IdenƟfy criƟcal informaƟon system assets supporƟng essenƟal 
missions and business funcƟons 
CP-4 a. 
ConƟngency Plan 
TesƟng
x Test the conƟngency plan for the informaƟon system [at least 
annually] using [[Agency] deﬁned and informaƟon system speciﬁc 
tests and exercises such as checklist, walk-through/tabletop, 
simulaƟon, parallel, full interrupt] to determine the eﬀecƟveness of 
the plan and the organizaƟonal readiness to execute the plan 
CP-4 b. 
ConƟngency Plan 
TesƟng 
x Reviews the conƟngency plan test results 
CP-4 c. 
ConƟngency Plan 
TesƟng 
x IniƟates correcƟve acƟons, if needed 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 123 ---
123 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-4 (1) 
ConƟngency Plan 
TesƟng | 
Coordinate with 
Related Plans 
x Coordinate conƟngency plan tesƟng with organizaƟonal elements 
responsible for related plans 
CP-4 (2) 
a. 
ConƟngency Plan 
TesƟng | Alternate 
Processing Site 
x Test the conƟngency plan at the alternate processing site: 
CP-4 (2) 
b. 
ConƟngency Plan 
TesƟng | Alternate 
Processing Site 
x To familiarize conƟngency personnel with the facility and available 
resources;
CP-6 a. 
Alternate Storage 
Site 
x Establish an alternate storage site including necessary agreements to 
permit the storage and retrieval of informaƟon system backup 
informaƟon 
CP-6 b. 
Alternate Storage 
Site 
x Ensure that the alternate storage site provides informaƟon security 
safeguards equivalent to that of the primary site
CP-6 (1) 
Alternate Storage 
Site | SeparaƟon 
from Primary Site 
x IdenƟfy an alternate storage site that is separated from the primary 
storage site to reduce suscepƟbility to the same threats 
CP-6 (2) 
Alternate Storage 
Site | Recovery 
Time / Point 
ObjecƟves 
x Conﬁgure the alternate storage site to facilitate recovery operaƟons 
in accordance with recovery Ɵme and recovery point objecƟves 
CP-6 (3) 
Alternate Storage 
Site | Accessibility 
x IdenƟfy potenƟal accessibility problems to the alternate storage site 
in the event of an area-wide disrupƟon or disaster and outlines 
explicit miƟgaƟon acƟons 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 124 ---
124 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-7 a. 
Alternate 
Processing Site 
x Establish an alternate processing site including necessary 
agreements to permit the transfer and resumpƟon of [informaƟon 
system operaƟons] for essenƟal missions/business funcƟons within 
[at least 12 hours for High systems (The Ɵme frame for resumpƟon 
of essenƟal missions and business funcƟons for Moderate systems 
must be based on the Recovery Time ObjecƟve (RTO))] when the 
CP-7 b. 
Alternate 
Processing Site 
x Ensure that equipment and supplies required to transfer and resume 
operaƟons are available at the alternate processing site or contracts 
are in place to support delivery to the site within the organizaƟon-
deﬁned Ɵme period for transfer/resumpƟon 
CP-7 c. 
Alternate 
Processing Site
x Ensure that the alternate processing site provides informaƟon 
security safeguards equivalent to that of the primary site 
CP-7 (1) 
Alternate 
Processing Site | 
SeparaƟon from 
Primary Site 
x IdenƟfy an alternate processing site that is separated from the 
primary processing site to reduce suscepƟbility to the same threats 
CP-7 (2) 
Alternate 
Processing Site | 
x IdenƟfy potenƟal accessibility problems to the alternate processing 
site in the event of an area-wide disrupƟon or disaster and outlines 
explicit miƟgaƟon acƟons 
CP-7 (3) 
Alternate 
Processing Site | 
x Develop alternate processing site agreements that contain priority-
of-service provisions in accordance with organizaƟonal availability 
requirements (including recovery Ɵme objecƟves) 
CP-7 (4) 
Alternate 
Processing Site | 
x Prepare the alternate processing site so that the site is ready to be 
used as the operaƟonal site supporƟng essenƟal missions and 
business funcƟons 
CP-9 a. InformaƟon System 
Backup 
x Conduct backups of user-level informaƟon contained in the 
informaƟon system [periodically (Low), weekly (Moderate), and daily 
(High) for ﬁle shares on the network; end users are responsible for 
backup and recovery funcƟons for desktops, notebooks, and hand-
held computers] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 125 ---
125 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-9 b. InformaƟon System 
Backup 
x Conduct backups of system-level informaƟon contained in the 
informaƟon system [periodically (Low), weekly (Moderate), and 
daily (High)] 
CP-9 c. InformaƟon System 
Backup 
x Conduct backups of informaƟon system documentaƟon including 
security-related documentaƟon [periodically (Low), weekly 
(Moderate), and daily (High) for ﬁle shares on the network; end 
users are responsible for backup and recovery funcƟons for 
desktops, notebooks, and hand-held computers] 
CP-9 d. InformaƟon System 
Backup 
x Protect the conﬁdenƟality, integrity, and availability of backup 
informaƟon at storage locaƟons 
CP-9 (1) InformaƟon System 
Backup | TesƟng 
for Reliability / 
Integrity 
x Test backup informaƟon [at least annually (A frequency of 
quarterly is recommended for High systems and semi-annually is 
recommended for Moderate systems)] to verify media reliability 
and informaƟon integrity 
CP-9 (2) InformaƟon System 
Backup | Test 
RestoraƟon Using 
Samples 
x Use a sample of backup informaƟon in the restoraƟon of selected 
informaƟon system funcƟons as part of conƟngency plan tesƟng 
CP-9 (3) InformaƟon System 
Backup | Separate 
Storage for CriƟcal 
InformaƟon 
x Store backup copies of [the operaƟng system and other criƟcal 
informaƟon system soOware, as well as, copies of the informaƟon 
system inventory (including hardware, soOware, and ﬁrmware 
components)] in a separate facility or in a ﬁre-rated container that 
is not collocated with the operaƟonal system 
CP-9 (5) InformaƟon System 
Backup | Transfer 
to Alternate 
Storage Site 
x Transfer informaƟon system backup informaƟon to the alternate 
storage site [at a transfer rate consistent with established recovery 
Ɵme objecƟves (RTO) and recovery point objecƟves (RPO)] 
CP-10 
InformaƟon System 
Recovery and 
x Provide for the recovery and reconsƟtuƟon of the informaƟon 
system to a known state aOer a disrupƟon, compromise, or failure 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 126 ---
126 
A.1 
NIST #  CONTROL NAME  
REQUIREMENT  
CP-10 
(2) 
InformaƟon System 
Recovery and 
ReconsƟtuƟon | 
TransacƟon 
Recovery 
x Assure the informaƟon system implements transacƟon recovery 
for systems that are transacƟon-based 
CP-10 
(4) 
InformaƟon System 
Recovery and 
ReconsƟtuƟon | 
Restore Within 
Time Period
x Provide the capability to restore informaƟon system components 
within [established recovery Ɵme objecƟves (RTO)] from 
conﬁguraƟon-controlled and integrity-protected informaƟon 
represenƟng a known, operaƟonal state for the components 
7. Compliance, Enforcement, and ExcepƟons 
A. Compliance: The requirements imposed by this [Agency] security policy are mandatory for all employees and 
contractors.  This policy uses the plain language guidelines for conveying requirements.  The following 
convenƟon is used: 
x “must” for an obligaƟon;  
x “must not” for a prohibiƟon;  
x “may” for a discreƟonary acƟon; and  
x “should” for a recommendaƟon. 
B. Enforcement: The CISO is responsible for compliance and enforcement of this policy and, consistent with this 
authority, may take acƟon necessary to prevent risk to [Agency] informaƟon or informaƟon systems.  ViolaƟons, 
or suspected violaƟons, should be reported to the Cybersecurity Program; see SecƟon 8 for contact informaƟon.  
ViolaƟons of the policy may result in the loss or limitaƟon of access to [Agency] informaƟon and informaƟon 
systems, the iniƟaƟon of administraƟve acƟon consistent with current agency disciplinary procedures, and 
potenƟal referral for appropriate criminal/civil proceedings.
C. ExcepƟons: Policy waivers are approved deviaƟons from a policy requirement that are subject to approval of the 
CISO.  The CISO maintains the formal request form, which must be submiƩed by Associate Directors or Oﬃce 
Heads to the CISO for review and approval.  Each waiver must be submiƩed with a compelling business case 
jusƟﬁcaƟon and risk assessment conducted by an ISSO.  Waivers will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  
Waivers granted for an informaƟon system will remain valid unƟl the AuthorizaƟon to Operate for the system 
expires.  Waivers granted for an oﬃce will remain valid unƟl the next review and update of this policy occurs. 
8. Contact InformaƟon 
Any quesƟons or concerns regarding this policy should be directed to: 
[AGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION] 
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 127 ---
127 
A.1 
9. ExpiraƟon and Renewal 
This policy is in eﬀect as of the date on this memorandum and should be reviewed and renewed every three years.  
This policy supersedes secƟons X.X, X.X.X, X.X.X, and X.X.X through X.X.X of the InformaƟon Security and Privacy Policy.
EXAMPLE AGENCY 
INTERNAL 
POLICIES

--- Página 128 ---
128 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS

--- Página 129 ---
129 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
The table below gathers all of the government-wide policies and publicaƟons that impact the CISO’s role. The policies 
are presented in chronological order with the most recent ﬁrst. Some issue dates are approximate.  
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
Fiscal Year 2017-2018 Guidance on Federal InformaƟon Security and Privacy 
Management Requirements 
M-18-02 
10/16/17 
Binding OperaƟonal DirecƟve 18-01: Enhance Email and Web Security 
BOD 18-01 
10/16/17 
Derived Personal IdenƟty VeriﬁcaƟon (PIV) CredenƟals 
NIST SP 1800-12
9/29/17 
AƩribute Based Access Control (2nd DraO) 
NIST SP 1800-3 
9/20/17 
Binding OperaƟonal DirecƟve 17-01: Removal of Kaspersky-Branded Products 
BOD 17-01 
9/13/17 
Data Integrity: Recovering from Ransomware and Other DestrucƟve Events 
NIST SP 1800-11
9/6/17 
Access Rights Management for the Financial Services Sector 
NIST SP 1800-9 
8/31/17 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal 
InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons 
NIST SP 800-53 
8/1/17 
NaƟonal IniƟaƟve for Cybersecurity EducaƟon (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce 
Framework 
NIST SP 800-181
8/1/17 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-63, Electronic AuthenƟcaƟon Guideline. 
NIST SP 800-63 
6/1/17 
ReporƟng Guidance for ExecuƟve Order on Strengthening the Cybersecurity of 
Federal Networks and CriƟcal Infrastructure 
M-17-25 
5/19/17 
ExecuƟve Order 13800 Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks 
and CriƟcal Infrastructure 
EO 13800 
5/11/17

--- Página 130 ---
130 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
Securing Wireless Infusion Pumps in Healthcare Delivery OrganizaƟons 
NIST SP 1800-8 
5/8/17 
US-CERT Federal Incident NoƟﬁcaƟon Guidelines 
 
4/1/17 
FY 2016 FISMA14: Annual Report to Congress 
 
3/10/17 
SituaƟonal Awareness for Electric UƟliƟes 
NIST SP 1800-7 
2/16/17 
Federal ConƟnuity DirecƟve 1 - Federal ExecuƟve Branch NaƟonal ConƟnuity 
Program and Requirements, February 2008. 
FCD-1 
1/7/17 
Preparing for and Responding to a Breach of Personally IdenƟﬁable 
InformaƟon 
M-17-12 
1/3/17 
Circular No. A-108: Federal Agency ResponsibiliƟes for Review, ReporƟng, and 
PublicaƟon under the Privacy Act 
A-108 
12/23/16 
Management of Federal High Value Assets 
M-17-09 
12/9/16 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-171, ProtecƟng Controlled Unclassiﬁed 
InformaƟon in Nonfederal InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons. 
NIST SP 800-171 
12/1/16 
Policies for Federal Agency Public Websites and Digital Services
M-17-06 
11/8/16 
Fiscal Year 2016-2017 Guidance on Federal InformaƟon Security and Privacy 
Management Requirements 
M-17-05 
11/4/16 
Domain Name Systems-Based Electronic Mail Security 
NIST SP 1800-6 
11/2/16 
Data Center OpƟmizaƟon IniƟaƟve (DCOI) 
M-16-19 
8/1/16

--- Página 131 ---
131 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
Circular No. A-130: Managing InformaƟon as a Strategic Resource 
A-130 
7/27/16 
Federal Government CoordinaƟon Architecture for Signiﬁcant Cyber Incidents 
PPD-41 
7/26/16 
PreparaƟon, Submission, and ExecuƟon of the Budget 
Circular A-11 
7/1/16 
Federal Cybersecurity Workforce Strategy 
M-16-15 
6/12/16 
GiO Basket on MiƟgaƟng Insider Threats 
 
4/1/16 
Cybersecurity NaƟonal AcƟon Plan 
CNAP 
2/9/16 
Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Strategic Plan 
 
2/4/16 
Mobile Device Security: Cloud and Hybrid Builds 
NIST SP 1800-4 
11/2/15 
Cybersecurity Strategy ImplementaƟon Plan (CSIP) 
M-16-04 
10/30/15 
Cybersecurity Act of 2015 (including CISA) 
 
10/27/15 
IT Asset Management: Financial Services 
NIST SP 1800-5 
10/26/15 
IdenƟty and Access Management for Electric UƟliƟes 
NIST SP 1800-2 
8/25/15 
Securing Electronic Health Records on Mobile Devices 
NIST SP 1800-1 
7/28/15

--- Página 132 ---
132 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
MulƟ-Agency Science and Technology PrioriƟes for the FY 2017 Budget 
M-15-16 
7/9/15 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-79, Guidelines for the AuthorizaƟon of Personal 
IdenƟty VeriﬁcaƟon Card Issuers (PCI) and Derived PIV CredenƟal Issuers 
(DPCI). 
NIST SP 800-79 
7/1/15 
FACT SHEET: Enhancing and Strengthening the Federal Government’s 
Cybersecurity 
 
6/12/15 
Policy to Require Secure ConnecƟons across Federal Websites and Web 
Services 
M-15-13 
6/8/15 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-73, Interfaces for Personal IdenƟty VeriﬁcaƟon. 
NIST SP 800-73 
5/1/15 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-78, Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Sizes for 
Personal IdenƟty VeriﬁcaƟon. 
NIST SP 800-78 
5/1/15 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-161, Supply Chain Risk Management PracƟces for 
Federal InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons. 
NIST SP 800-161 
4/1/15 
ExecuƟve Order 13691—PromoƟng Private Sector Cybersecurity InformaƟon 
Sharing 
EO 13691 
2/20/15 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-53A, Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in 
Federal InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons: Building EﬀecƟve Security 
Assessment Plans 
NIST SP 800-53A 
12/18/14 
Federal InformaƟon Security ModernizaƟon Act of 2014 
FISMA 14 
12/18/14 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-157, Guidelines for Derived Personal IdenƟty 
VeriﬁcaƟon CredenƟals. 
NIST SP 800-157 
12/1/14 
ExecuƟve Order 13681 Improving the Security of Consumer Financial 
TransacƟons 
EO 13681 
10/17/14 
Fiscal Year 2014-2015 Guidance on Improving Federal InformaƟon Security 
and Privacy Management PracƟces 
M-15-01 
10/3/14

--- Página 133 ---
133 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
TechFAR 
 
8/8/14 
NIST Supplemental Guidance on Ongoing AuthorizaƟon: TransiƟoning to Near 
Real-Time Risk Management. 
 
6/1/14 
NIST Framework for Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity. 
 
4/16/18 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-162, Guide to AƩribute Based Access Control 
(ABAC) DeﬁniƟon and ConsideraƟons. 
NIST SP 800-162 
1/1/14 
Enhancing the Security of Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems 
M-14-03 
11/8/13 
NIST Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 201, Personal 
IdenƟty VeriﬁcaƟon of Federal Employees and Contractors 
FIPS PUB 201-2 
8/1/13 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-76-2, Biometric SpeciﬁcaƟons for Personal 
IdenƟty VeriﬁcaƟon. 
NIST SP 800-76-2 
7/1/13 
PresidenƟal Policy DirecƟve -- CriƟcal Infrastructure Security and Resilience 
PPD-21 
2/12/13 
ExecuƟve Order 13636 Improving CriƟcal Infrastructure Cybersecurity 
EO 13636 
2/12/13 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-30, Guide for ConducƟng Risk Assessments 
NIST SP 800-30 
9/1/12 
Computer Security Incident Handling Guide 
NIST SP 800-61 
8/1/12 
Security AuthorizaƟon of InformaƟon Systems in Cloud CompuƟng 
Environments 
 
12/8/11 
Security AuthorizaƟon of InformaƟon Systems in Cloud CompuƟng 
Environments 
(FedRAMP memo) 
12/8/11

--- Página 134 ---
134 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
Federal IdenƟty, CredenƟal and Access Management Roadmap and 
ImplementaƟon Guidance 
 
12/2/11 
Trustworthy Cyberspace: Strategic Plan for Cybersecurity R&D Programs 
 
12/1/11 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-137, InformaƟon Security ConƟnuous Monitoring 
for Federal InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons. 
NIST SP 800-137 
9/1/11 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-39, Managing InformaƟon Security Risk: 
OrganizaƟon, Mission, and InformaƟon System View 
NIST SP 800-39 
3/1/11 
ExecuƟve Order 13556 Controlled Unclassiﬁed InformaƟon 
EO 13556 
11/4/10 
Clarifying Cybersecurity ResponsibiliƟes and AcƟviƟes of EOP and DHS 
M-10-28 
7/6/10 
Guidance for Online Use of Web Measurement and CustomizaƟon 
Technologies 
M-10-22 
6/25/10 
Guidance for Agency Use of Third-Party Websites and ApplicaƟons 
M-10-23 
6/25/10 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-34, ConƟngency Planning Guide for 
Federal InformaƟon Systems 
NIST SP 800-34 
5/1/10 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-122, Guide to ProtecƟng the ConﬁdenƟality of 
Personally IdenƟﬁable InformaƟon (PII). 
NIST SP 800-122 
4/1/10 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-37, Guide for Applying the Risk Management 
Framework to Federal InformaƟon Systems: A Security Life Cycle Approach 
NIST SP 800-37 
2/1/10 
Cyberspace Policy Review 
 
5/29/09 
Comprehensive NaƟonal Cybersecurity IniƟaƟve 
CNCI 
5/1/09 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-116, Guidelines for the Use of PIV CredenƟals in 
Physical Access Control Systems (PACS). 
NIST SP 800-116 
11/1/08

--- Página 135 ---
135 
A.2 
GOVERNMENT-WIDE 
POLICIES AND 
PUBLICATIONS 
Policy or PublicaƟon  
Code or short  
Issue Date  
Securing the Federal Government’s Domain Name System Infrastructure 
M-08-23 
8/22/08 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-60, Guide for Mapping Types of InformaƟon and 
InformaƟon Systems to Security Categories. 
NIST SP 800-60 
8/1/08 
HSPD - 23 Cybersecurity Policy 
HSPD - 23 
1/8/08 
Homeland Security PresidenƟal DirecƟve 7: CriƟcal Infrastructure 
IdenƟﬁcaƟon, PrioriƟzaƟon, and ProtecƟon 
HSPD-7 
12/3/07 
Homeland Security PresidenƟal DirecƟve 20 (NaƟonal Security PresidenƟal 
DirecƟve 51) - NaƟonal ConƟnuity Policy 
HSPD-20 
5/9/07 
NIST Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 200, Minimum 
Security Requirements for Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems 
FIPS PUB 200 
3/1/06 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for 
Federal InformaƟon Systems 
NIST SP 800-18 
2/1/06 
Homeland Security PresidenƟal DirecƟve 12: Policy for a Common 
IdenƟﬁcaƟon Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors 
HSPD-12 
8/27/04 
Homeland Security PresidenƟal DirecƟve 12 - Policy for a Common 
IdenƟﬁcaƟon Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors 
HSPD-12 
8/27/04 
NIST Federal InformaƟon Processing Standards PublicaƟon 199, Standards for 
Security CategorizaƟon of Federal InformaƟon and InformaƟon Systems 
FIPS PUB 199 
2/1/04 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-59, Guideline for IdenƟfying an InformaƟon 
System as a NaƟonal Security System. 
NIST SP 800-59 
8/1/03 
E-Government Act of 2002 
FISMA 2002 
12/17/02 
NIST Special PublicaƟon 800-47, Security Guide for InterconnecƟng 
InformaƟon Technology Systems 
NIST SP 800-47 
8/1/02

--- Página 136 ---
136 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(1) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
periodic assessments of the risk and magnitude of the harm that could 
result from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disrupƟon, 
modiﬁcaƟon, or destrucƟon of informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, which may include using 
automated tools consistent with standards and guidelines promulgated 
under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40; 
The tables in this Appendix break the language in FISMA down by which party is responsible for each acƟon. For 
convenience, we have only included the responsibiliƟes assigned to Federal agencies, DHS, and OMB in this document. 
Please see the full FISMA law for the complete roles and responsibiliƟes it assigns. 
A.3.1 FISMA Responsibility Breakdown for 
Agencies

--- Página 137 ---
137 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(2) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
policies and procedures that—  
 
(A) are based on the risk assessments required by paragraph (1);  
 
(B) cost-eﬀecƟvely reduce informaƟon security risks to an acceptable level;  
 
(C) ensure that informaƟon security is addressed throughout the life cycle 
of each agency informaƟon system; and  
 
(D) ensure compliance with—  
(i) the requirements of this subchapter;  
(ii) policies and procedures as may be prescribed by the Director, and 
informaƟon security standards promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 
40;  
(iii) minimally acceptable system conﬁguraƟon requirements, as 
determined by the agency; and  
(iv) any other applicable requirements, including standards and guidelines 
for naƟonal security systems issued in accordance with law and as directed 
by the President; 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(3)
Agencies
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
subordinate plans for providing adequate informaƟon security for 
networks, faciliƟes, and systems or groups of informaƟon systems, as 
appropriate;

--- Página 138 ---
138 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(4) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
security awareness training to inform personnel, including contractors and 
other users of informaƟon systems that support the operaƟons and assets 
of the agency, of—  
 
(A) informaƟon security risks associated with their acƟviƟes; and  
 
(B) their responsibiliƟes in complying with agency policies and procedures 
designed to reduce these risks; 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(5) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
periodic tesƟng and evaluaƟon of the eﬀecƟveness of informaƟon security 
policies, procedures, and pracƟces, to be performed with a frequency 
depending on risk, but no less than annually, of which such tesƟng—  
(A) shall include tesƟng of management, operaƟonal, and technical controls 
of every informaƟon system idenƟﬁed in the inventory required under 
secƟon 3505(c);  
 
(B) may include tesƟng relied on in an evaluaƟon under secƟon 3555; and  
 
(C) shall include using automated tools, consistent with standards and 
guidelines promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40;

--- Página 139 ---
139 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(6) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
a process for planning, implemenƟng, evaluaƟng, and documenƟng 
remedial acƟon to address any deﬁciencies in the informaƟon security 
policies, procedures, and pracƟces of the agency; 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(7) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
procedures for detecƟng, reporƟng, and responding to security incidents, 
which— 
 
(A) shall be consistent with the standards and guidelines described in 
secƟon 3556(b);  
 
(B) may include using automated tools; and  
 
(C) shall include—  
(i) miƟgaƟng risks associated with such incidents before substanƟal damage 
is done;  
(ii) noƟfying and consulƟng with the Federal informaƟon security incident 
center established in secƟon 3556; and 
(iii) noƟfying and consulƟng with, as appropriate—  
(I) law enforcement agencies and relevant Oﬃces of Inspector General and 
Oﬃces of General Counsel;  
(II) an oﬃce designated by the President for any incident involving a 
naƟonal security system;  
(III) for a major incident, the commiƩees of Congress described in 
subsecƟon (c)(1)—(aa) not later than 7 days aOer the date on which there 
is a reasonable basis to conclude that the major incident has occurred; and 
(bb) aOer the iniƟal noƟﬁcaƟon under item (aa), within a reasonable period 
of Ɵme aOer addiƟonal informaƟon relaƟng to the incident is discovered, 
including the summary required under subsecƟon (c)(1)(A)(i); and  
(IV) any other agency or oﬃce, in accordance with law or as directed by the 
President; and

--- Página 140 ---
140 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
b(8) 
Agencies 
AGENCY PROGRAM.—Each agency shall develop, document, and 
implement an agency-wide informaƟon security program to provide 
informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon systems that 
support the operaƟons and assets of the agency, including those provided 
or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, that includes— 
plans and procedures to ensure conƟnuity of operaƟons for informaƟon 
systems that support the operaƟons and assets of the agency.

--- Página 141 ---
141 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
c(1) 
Agencies 
AGENCY REPORTING.— ANNUAL REPORT.—  
 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each agency shall submit to the Director, the Secretary, 
the CommiƩee on Government Reform, the CommiƩee on Homeland 
Security, and the CommiƩee on Science of the House of RepresentaƟves, 
the CommiƩee on Homeland Security and Governmental Aﬀairs and the 
CommiƩee on Commerce, Science, and TransportaƟon of the Senate, the 
appropriate authorizaƟon and appropriaƟons commiƩees of Congress, and 
the Comptroller General a report on the adequacy and eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies, procedures, and pracƟces, including—  
(i) a descripƟon of each major informaƟon security incident or related sets 
of incidents, including summaries of—  
(I) the threats and threat actors, vulnerabiliƟes, and impacts relaƟng to the 
incident;  
(II) the risk assessments conducted under secƟon 3554(a)(2)(A) of the 
aﬀected informaƟon systems before the date on which the incident 
occurred;  
(III) the status of compliance of the aﬀected informaƟon systems with 
applicable security requirements at the Ɵme of the incident; and  
(IV) the detecƟon, response, and remediaƟon acƟons;  
(ii) the total number of informaƟon security incidents, including a 
descripƟon of incidents resulƟng in signiﬁcant compromise of informaƟon 
security, system impact levels, types of incident, and locaƟons of aﬀected 
systems; 
(iii) a descripƟon of each major informaƟon security incident that involved 
a breach of personally idenƟﬁable informaƟon, as deﬁned by the Director, 
including—  
(I) the number of individuals whose informaƟon was aﬀected by the major 
informaƟon security incident; and  
(II) a descripƟon of the informaƟon that was breached or exposed; and  
(iv) any other informaƟon as the Director or the Secretary, in consultaƟon 
with the Director, may require.  
 
(B) UNCLASSIFIED REPORT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Each report submiƩed under subparagraph (A) shall be in 
unclassiﬁed form, but may include a classiﬁed annex.  
(ii) ACCESS TO INFORMATION.—The head of an agency shall ensure that, to 
the greatest extent pracƟcable, informaƟon is included in the unclassiﬁed 
version of the reports submiƩed by the agency under subparagraph (A).

--- Página 142 ---
142 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
c(2) 
Agencies 
AGENCY REPORTING.— OTHER PLANS AND REPORTS.—Each agency shall 
address the adequacy and eﬀecƟveness of informaƟon security policies, 
procedures, and pracƟces in management plans and reports. 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
d(1) 
Agencies 
PERFORMANCE PLAN.— In addiƟon to the requirements of subsecƟon (c), 
each agency, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall include as part of the 
performance plan required under secƟon 1115 of Ɵtle 31 a descripƟon of—  
 
(A) the Ɵme periods; and  
 
(B) the resources, including budget, staﬃng, and training, that are 
necessary to implement the program required under subsecƟon (b). 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
d(2) 
Agencies 
PERFORMANCE PLAN.— The descripƟon under paragraph (1) shall be based 
on the risk assessments required under subsecƟon (b)(1). 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
e 
Agencies 
PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.— Each agency shall provide the public 
with Ɵmely noƟce and opportuniƟes for comment on proposed informaƟon 
security policies and procedures to the extent that such policies and 
procedures aﬀect communicaƟon with the public. 
§ 3556. Federal 
informaƟon 
security 
incident center 
b 
Agencies 
(operaƟng or 
exercising 
control of a 
naƟonal 
security 
system)
NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.—Each agency operaƟng or exercising 
control of a naƟonal security system shall share informaƟon about 
informaƟon security incidents, threats, and vulnerabiliƟes with the Federal 
informaƟon security incident center to the extent consistent with 
standards and guidelines for naƟonal security systems, issued in 
accordance with law and as directed by the President

--- Página 143 ---
143 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3557. 
NaƟonal 
security 
systems 
 
Agencies 
(operaƟng or 
exercising 
control of a 
naƟonal 
security 
system)
The head of each agency operaƟng or exercising control of a naƟonal 
security system shall be responsible for ensuring that the agency— 
provides informaƟon security protecƟons commensurate with the risk and 
magnitude of the harm resulƟng from the unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or destrucƟon of the informaƟon 
contained in such system; 
§ 3557. 
NaƟonal 
security 
systems 
 
Agencies 
(operaƟng or 
exercising 
control of a 
naƟonal 
security 
system)
The head of each agency operaƟng or exercising control of a naƟonal 
security system shall be responsible for ensuring that the agency— 
implements informaƟon security policies and pracƟces as required by 
standards and guidelines for naƟonal security systems, issued in 
accordance with law and as directed by the President; and 
§ 3557. 
NaƟonal 
security 
systems 
 
Agencies 
(operaƟng or 
exercising 
control of a 
naƟonal 
security 
system)
The head of each agency operaƟng or exercising control of a naƟonal 
security system shall be responsible for ensuring that the agency— 
complies with the requirements of this subchapter.

--- Página 144 ---
144 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(1) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
  
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall be responsible for—  
 
(A) providing informaƟon security protecƟons commensurate with the risk 
and magnitude of the harm resulƟng from unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or destrucƟon of—  
(i) informaƟon collected or maintained by or on behalf of the agency; and  
(ii) informaƟon systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor 
of an agency or other organizaƟon on behalf of an agency;  
 
(B) complying with the requirements of this subchapter and related 
policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines, including— 
(i) informaƟon security standards promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 
40;  
(ii) operaƟonal direcƟves developed by the Secretary under secƟon 3553
(b);  
(iii) policies and procedures issued by the Director; and  
(iv) informaƟon security standards and guidelines for naƟonal security 
systems issued in accordance with law and as directed by the President; 
and  
 
(C) ensuring that informaƟon security management processes are 
integrated with agency strategic, operaƟonal, and budgetary planning 
processes;

--- Página 145 ---
145 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(2) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
 IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall ensure that senior agency 
oﬃcials provide informaƟon security for the informaƟon and informaƟon 
systems that support the operaƟons and assets under their control, 
including through—  
 
(A) assessing the risk and magnitude of the harm that could result from the 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or 
destrucƟon of such informaƟon or informaƟon systems;  
 
(B) determining the levels of informaƟon security appropriate to protect 
such informaƟon and informaƟon systems in accordance with standards 
promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40, for informaƟon security 
classiﬁcaƟons and related requirements;  
 
(C) implemenƟng policies and procedures to cost-eﬀecƟvely reduce risks to 
an acceptable level; and  
 
(D) periodically tesƟng and evaluaƟng informaƟon security controls and 
techniques to ensure that they are eﬀecƟvely implemented;

--- Página 146 ---
146 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(3) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
[LEGISLATIVE DEFINITION OF CISO ROLE] 
  
  
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall delegate to the agency Chief 
InformaƟon Oﬃcer established under secƟon 3506 (or comparable oﬃcial 
in an agency not covered by such secƟon) the authority to ensure 
compliance with the requirements imposed on the agency under this 
subchapter, including—  
 
(A) designaƟng a senior agency informaƟon security oﬃcer who shall—  
(i) carry out the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer’s responsibiliƟes under this 
secƟon;  
(ii) possess professional qualiﬁcaƟons, including training and experience, 
required to administer the funcƟons described under this secƟon;  
(iii) have informaƟon security duƟes as that oﬃcial’s primary duty; and  
(iv) head an oﬃce with the mission and resources to assist in ensuring 
agency compliance with this secƟon;  
 
(B) developing and maintaining an agencywide informaƟon security 
program as required by subsecƟon (b);  
 
(C) developing and maintaining informaƟon security policies, procedures, 
and control techniques to address all applicable requirements, including 
those issued under secƟon 3553 of this Ɵtle and secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40;  
 
(D) training and overseeing personnel with signiﬁcant responsibiliƟes for 
informaƟon security with respect to such responsibiliƟes; and  
 
(E) assisƟng senior agency oﬃcials concerning their responsibiliƟes under 
paragraph (2);

--- Página 147 ---
147 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(4) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall ensure that the agency has 
trained personnel suﬃcient to assist the agency in complying with the 
requirements of this subchapter and related policies, procedures, 
standards, and guidelines; 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(5) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall ensure that the agency Chief 
InformaƟon Oﬃcer, in coordinaƟon with other senior agency oﬃcials, 
reports annually to the agency head on the eﬀecƟveness of the agency 
informaƟon security program, including progress of remedial acƟons; 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(6) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall ensure that senior agency 
oﬃcials, including chief informaƟon oﬃcers of component agencies or 
equivalent oﬃcials, carry out responsibiliƟes under this subchapter as 
directed by the oﬃcial delegated authority under paragraph (3); and 
§ 3554. Federal 
agency 
responsibiliƟes 
a(7) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
IN GENERAL.—The head of each agency shall ensure that all personnel are 
held accountable for complying with the agency-wide informaƟon security 
program implemented under subsecƟon (b). 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
e(1) 
Agencies (the 
head of each 
agency) 
AGENCY REPORTING.— Each year, not later than such date established by 
the Director, the head of each agency shall submit to the Director the 
results of the evaluaƟon required under this secƟon. 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
a(1) 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
IN GENERAL.— Each year each agency shall have performed an 
independent evaluaƟon of the informaƟon security program and pracƟces 
of that agency to determine the eﬀecƟveness of such program and 
pracƟces.

--- Página 148 ---
148 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
a(2) 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
  
IN GENERAL.— Each evaluaƟon under this secƟon shall include—  
 
(A) tesƟng of the eﬀecƟveness of informaƟon security policies, procedures, 
and pracƟces of a representaƟve subset of the agency’s informaƟon 
systems;  
 
(B) an assessment of the eﬀecƟveness of the informaƟon security policies, 
procedures, and pracƟces of the agency; and  
 
(C) separate presentaƟons, as appropriate, regarding informaƟon security 
relaƟng to naƟonal security systems. 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
d 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
EXISTING EVALUATIONS.—The evaluaƟon required by this secƟon may be 
based in whole or in part on an audit, evaluaƟon, or report relaƟng to 
programs or pracƟces of the applicable agency. 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
e(2) 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
AGENCY REPORTING.— To the extent an evaluaƟon required under this 
secƟon directly relates to a naƟonal security system, the evaluaƟon results 
submiƩed to the Director shall contain only a summary and assessment of 
that porƟon of the evaluaƟon directly relaƟng to a naƟonal security system. 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
f 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
PROTECTION OF INFORMATION.—Agencies and evaluators shall take 
appropriate steps to ensure the protecƟon of informaƟon which, if 
disclosed, may adversely aﬀect informaƟon security. Such protecƟons shall 
be commensurate with the risk and comply with all applicable laws and 
regulaƟons. 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
b(1) 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR.—Subject to subsecƟon (c)— for each agency with 
an Inspector General appointed under the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
the annual evaluaƟon required by this secƟon shall be performed by the 
Inspector General or by an independent external auditor, as determined by 
the Inspector General of the agency; and

--- Página 149 ---
149 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
b(2) 
Agencies 
(Inspector 
General  or 
independent 
external 
auditor) 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR.—Subject to subsecƟon (c)— for each agency to 
which paragraph (1) does not apply, the head of the agency shall engage an 
independent external auditor to perform the evaluaƟon. 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
c(1) 
Agencies (an 
enƟty 
designated by 
the agency 
head) 
NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.—For each agency operaƟng or exercising 
control of a naƟonal security system, that porƟon of the evaluaƟon 
required by this secƟon directly relaƟng to a naƟonal security system shall 
be performed— only by an enƟty designated by the agency head; and 
§ 3555. Annual 
independent 
evaluaƟon 
c(2) 
Agencies (an 
enƟty 
designated by 
the agency 
head)
 NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.—For each agency operaƟng or exercising 
control of a naƟonal security system, that porƟon of the evaluaƟon 
required by this secƟon directly relaƟng to a naƟonal security system shall 
be performed— in such a manner as to ensure appropriate protecƟon for 
informaƟon associated with any informaƟon security vulnerability in such 
system commensurate with the risk and in accordance with all applicable 
laws.

--- Página 150 ---
150 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon 
SubsecƟon 
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(1) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
 SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including assisƟng the Director in carrying out the authoriƟes and funcƟons 
under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), and (6) of subsecƟon (a); 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(2) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including developing and overseeing the implementaƟon of binding 
operaƟonal direcƟves to agencies to implement the policies, principles, 
standards, and guidelines developed by the Director under subsecƟon (a)
(1) and the requirements of this subchapter, which may be revised or 
repealed by the Director if the operaƟonal direcƟves issued on behalf of 
the Director are not in accordance with policies, principles, standards, and 
guidelines developed by the Director, including—  
(A) requirements for reporƟng security incidents to the Federal informaƟon 
security incident center established under secƟon 3556;  
(B) requirements for the contents of the annual reports required to be 
submiƩed under secƟon 3554(c)(1);  
(C) requirements for the miƟgaƟon of exigent risks to informaƟon systems; 
and  
(D) other operaƟonal requirements as the Director or Secretary, in 
consultaƟon with the Director, may determine necessary; 
A.3.2 FISMA Responsibility Breakdown for DHS

--- Página 151 ---
151 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(3) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
 SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including monitoring agency implementaƟon of informaƟon security 
policies and pracƟces; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(4) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
 SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including convening meeƟngs with senior agency oﬃcials to help ensure 
eﬀecƟve implementaƟon of informaƟon security policies and pracƟces; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(5) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including coordinaƟng Government-wide eﬀorts on informaƟon security 
policies and pracƟces, including consultaƟon with the Chief InformaƟon 
Oﬃcers Council established under secƟon 3603 and the Director of the 
NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology;

--- Página 152 ---
152 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(6) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including providing operaƟonal and technical assistance to agencies in 
implemenƟng policies, principles, standards, and guidelines on informaƟon 
security, including implementaƟon of standards promulgated under secƟon 
11331 of Ɵtle 40, including by—  
(A) operaƟng the Federal informaƟon security incident center established 
under secƟon 3556;  
(B) upon request by an agency, deploying technology to assist the agency 
to conƟnuously diagnose and miƟgate against cyber threats and 
vulnerabiliƟes, with or without reimbursement;  
(C) compiling and analyzing data on agency informaƟon security; and  
(D) developing and conducƟng targeted operaƟonal evaluaƟons, including 
threat and vulnerability assessments, on the informaƟon systems; and 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
b(7) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
SECRETARY.—The Secretary, in consultaƟon with the Director, shall 
administer the implementaƟon of agency informaƟon security policies and 
pracƟces for informaƟon systems, except for naƟonal security systems and 
informaƟon systems described in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsecƟon (e), 
including other acƟons as the Director or the Secretary, in consultaƟon with 
the Director, may determine necessary to carry out this subsecƟon. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
d 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.—Except for the authoriƟes and funcƟons 
described in subsecƟon (a)(5) and subsecƟon (c), the authoriƟes and 
funcƟons of the Director and the Secretary under this secƟon shall not 
apply to naƟonal security systems.

--- Página 153 ---
153 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
f(1)
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
CONSIDERATION.—IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the responsibiliƟes under 
subsecƟon (b), the Secretary shall consider any applicable standards or 
guidelines developed by the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology 
and issued by the Secretary of Commerce under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
f(2)
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
CONSIDERATION.—DIRECTIVES.—The Secretary shall—  
(A) consult with the Director of the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and 
Technology regarding any binding operaƟonal direcƟve that implements 
standards and guidelines developed by the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards 
and Technology; and  
(B) ensure that binding operaƟonal direcƟves issued under subsecƟon (b)
(2) do not conﬂict with the standards and guidelines issued under secƟon 
11331 of Ɵtle 40. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
f(3)
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
CONSIDERATION.—RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subchapter 
shall be construed as authorizing the Secretary to direct the Secretary of 
Commerce in the development and promulgaƟon of standards and 
guidelines under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
g 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY.—To ensure ﬁscal and policy consistency, the 
Secretary shall exercise the authority under this secƟon subject to direcƟon 
by the President, in coordinaƟon with the Director. 
§ 3556. Federal 
informaƟon 
security 
incident center 
a(1) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure the operaƟon of a central Federal 
informaƟon security incident center to— provide Ɵmely technical 
assistance to operators of agency informaƟon systems regarding security 
incidents, including guidance on detecƟng and handling informaƟon 
security incidents;

--- Página 154 ---
154 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3556. Federal 
informaƟon 
security 
incident center 
a(2) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure the operaƟon of a central Federal 
informaƟon security incident center to— compile and analyze informaƟon 
about incidents that threaten informaƟon security; 
§ 3556. Federal 
informaƟon 
security 
incident center 
a(3) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure the operaƟon of a central Federal 
informaƟon security incident center to— inform operators of agency 
informaƟon systems about current and potenƟal informaƟon security 
threats, and vulnerabiliƟes; 
§ 3556. Federal 
informaƟon 
security 
incident center 
a(4) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure the operaƟon of a central Federal 
informaƟon security incident center to— provide, as appropriate, 
intelligence and other informaƟon about cyber threats, vulnerabiliƟes, and 
incidents to agencies to assist in risk assessments conducted under secƟon 
3554(b); and 
§ 3556. Federal 
informaƟon 
security 
incident center 
a(5) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure the operaƟon of a central Federal 
informaƟon security incident center to— consult with the NaƟonal 
InsƟtute of Standards and Technology, agencies or oﬃces operaƟng or 
exercising control of naƟonal security systems (including the NaƟonal 
Security Agency), and such other agencies or oﬃces in accordance with law 
and as directed by the President regarding informaƟon security incidents 
and related maƩers. 
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
c 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
CONTINUOUS DIAGNOSTICS.—During the 2 year period beginning on the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Oﬃce of Management 
and Budget, with the assistance of the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
shall include in each report submiƩed under secƟon 3553(c) of Ɵtle 44, 
United States Code, as added by subsecƟon (a), an assessment of the 
adopƟon by agencies of conƟnuous diagnosƟcs technologies, including 
through the ConƟnuous DiagnosƟcs and MiƟgaƟon program, and other 
advanced security tools to provide informaƟon security, including 
challenges to the adopƟon of such technologies or security tools.

--- Página 155 ---
155 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
d(2) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
BREACHES.— NATIONAL SECURITY; LAW ENFORCEMENT; REMEDIATION.—
The AƩorney General, the head of an element of the intelligence 
community (as such term is deﬁned under secƟon 3(4) of the NaƟonal 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)), or the Secretary of Homeland 
Security may delay the noƟce to aﬀected individuals under paragraph (1)(B) 
if the noƟce would disrupt a law enforcement invesƟgaƟon, endanger 
naƟonal security, or hamper security remediaƟon acƟons. 
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
d(3) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) 
BREACHES.— REPORTS.—  
 
(A) DIRECTOR OF OMB.—During the ﬁrst 2 years beginning aOer the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Oﬃce of Management and 
Budget shall, on an annual basis—
(i) assess agency implementaƟon of data breach noƟﬁcaƟon policies and 
guidelines in aggregate; and  
(ii) include the assessment described in clause (i) in the report required 
under secƟon 3553(c) of Ɵtle 44, United States Code.  
 
(B) SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY.—During the ﬁrst 2 years 
beginning aOer the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall include an assessment of the status of agency 
implementaƟon of data breach noƟﬁcaƟon policies and guidelines in the 
requirements under secƟon 3553(b)(2)(B) of Ɵtle 44, United States Code. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(1) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with OMB 
Director) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—a summary of the incidents described in the annual reports 
required to be submiƩed under secƟon 3554(c)(1), including a summary of 
the informaƟon required under secƟon 3554(c)(1)(A)(iii);

--- Página 156 ---
156 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(2) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with OMB 
Director) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—a descripƟon of the threshold for reporƟng major informaƟon 
security incidents; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(3) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with OMB 
Director) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—a summary of the results of evaluaƟons required to be 
performed under secƟon 3555; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(4) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with OMB 
Director) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—an assessment of agency compliance with standards 
promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40; and 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(5) 
DHS (Secretary 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with OMB 
Director) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—an assessment of agency compliance with data breach 
noƟﬁcaƟon policies and procedures issued by the Director.

--- Página 157 ---
157 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon 
SubsecƟon 
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
a(1) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
DIRECTOR.—The Director shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies 
and pracƟces, including developing and overseeing the implementaƟon of 
policies, principles, standards, and guidelines on informaƟon security, 
including through ensuring Ɵmely agency adopƟon of and compliance with 
standards promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
a(2) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
DIRECTOR.—The Director shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies 
and pracƟces, including requiring agencies, consistent with the standards 
promulgated under such secƟon 11331 and the requirements of this 
subchapter, to idenƟfy and provide informaƟon security protecƟons 
commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm resulƟng from the 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or 
destrucƟon of—  
(A) informaƟon collected or maintained by or on behalf of an agency; or  
(B) informaƟon systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor 
of an agency or other organizaƟon on behalf of an agency; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
a(3) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
DIRECTOR.—The Director shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies 
and pracƟces, including ensuring that the Secretary carries out the 
authoriƟes and funcƟons under subsecƟon (b); 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
a(4) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
DIRECTOR.—The Director shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies 
and pracƟces, including coordinaƟng the development of standards and 
guidelines under secƟon 20 of the NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and 
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g–3) with agencies and oﬃces operaƟng or 
exercising control of naƟonal security systems (including the NaƟonal 
Security Agency) to assure, to the maximum extent feasible, that such 
standards and guidelines are complementary with standards and guidelines 
developed for naƟonal security systems; 
A.3.3. FISMA Responsibility Breakdown for OMB

--- Página 158 ---
158 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
a(5) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
DIRECTOR.—The Director shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies 
and pracƟces, including overseeing agency compliance with the 
requirements of this subchapter, including through any authorized acƟon 
under secƟon 11303 of Ɵtle 40, to enforce accountability for compliance 
with such requirements; and 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
a(6) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
DIRECTOR.—The Director shall oversee agency informaƟon security policies 
and pracƟces, including coordinaƟng informaƟon security policies and 
procedures with related informaƟon resources management policies and 
procedures. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
d 
OMB (Director 
of) 
NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.—Except for the authoriƟes and funcƟons 
described in subsecƟon (a)(5) and subsecƟon (c), the authoriƟes and 
funcƟons of the Director and the Secretary under this secƟon shall not 
apply to naƟonal security systems. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
g 
OMB (Director 
of) 
EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY.—To ensure ﬁscal and policy consistency, the 
Secretary shall exercise the authority under this secƟon subject to direcƟon 
by the President, in coordinaƟon with the Director. 
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
b(1) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
MAJOR INCIDENT.—The Director of the Oﬃce of Management and Budget 
shall— develop guidance on what consƟtutes a major incident for purposes 
of secƟon 3554(b) of Ɵtle 44, United States Code, as added by subsecƟon 
(a); and 
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
b(2) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
MAJOR INCIDENT.—The Director of the Oﬃce of Management and Budget 
shall— provide to Congress periodic brieﬁngs on the status of the 
developing of the guidance unƟl the date on which the guidance is issued.

--- Página 159 ---
159 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
c 
OMB (Director 
of) 
CONTINUOUS DIAGNOSTICS.—During the 2 year period beginning on the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Oﬃce of Management 
and Budget, with the assistance of the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
shall include in each report submiƩed under secƟon 3553(c) of Ɵtle 44, 
United States Code, as added by subsecƟon (a), an assessment of the 
adopƟon by agencies of conƟnuous diagnosƟcs technologies, including 
through the ConƟnuous DiagnosƟcs and MiƟgaƟon program, and other 
advanced security tools to provide informaƟon security, including 
challenges to the adopƟon of such technologies or security tools. 
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
d(1) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
BREACHES.— REQUIREMENTS.—The Director of the Oﬃce of Management 
and Budget shall ensure that data breach noƟﬁcaƟon policies and 
guidelines are updated periodically and require—  
 
(A) except as provided in paragraph (4), noƟce by the aﬀected agency to 
each commiƩee of Congress described in secƟon 3554(c)(1) of Ɵtle 44, 
United States Code, as added by subsecƟon (a), the CommiƩee on the 
Judiciary of the Senate, and the CommiƩee on the Judiciary of the House of 
RepresentaƟves, which shall— 
(i) be provided expediƟously and not later than 30 days aOer the date on 
which the agency discovered the unauthorized acquisiƟon or access; and  
(ii) include—  
(I) informaƟon about the breach, including a summary of any informaƟon 
that the agency knows on the date on which noƟﬁcaƟon is provided about 
how the breach occurred;  
(II) an esƟmate of the number of individuals aﬀected by the breach, based 
on informaƟon that the agency knows on the date on which noƟﬁcaƟon is 
provided, including an assessment of the risk of harm to aﬀected 
individuals;  
(III) a descripƟon of any circumstances necessitaƟng a delay in providing 
noƟce to aﬀected individuals; and  
(IV) an esƟmate of whether and when the agency will provide noƟce to 
aﬀected individuals; and  
 
(B) noƟce by the aﬀected agency to aﬀected individuals, pursuant to data 
breach noƟﬁcaƟon policies and guidelines, which shall be provided as 
expediƟously as pracƟcable and without unreasonable delay aOer the 
agency discovers the unauthorized acquisiƟon or access.

--- Página 160 ---
160 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3558. Eﬀect 
on exisƟng law 
d(3) 
OMB (Director 
of) 
BREACHES.— REPORTS.—  
 
(A) DIRECTOR OF OMB.—During the ﬁrst 2 years beginning aOer the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Oﬃce of Management and 
Budget shall, on an annual basis—  
(i) assess agency implementaƟon of data breach noƟﬁcaƟon policies and 
guidelines in aggregate; and  
(ii) include the assessment described in clause (i) in the report required 
under secƟon 3553(c) of Ɵtle 44, United States Code.  
 
(B) SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY.—During the ﬁrst 2 years 
beginning aOer the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall include an assessment of the status of agency 
implementaƟon of data breach noƟﬁcaƟon policies and guidelines in the 
requirements under secƟon 3553(b)(2)(B) of Ɵtle 44, United States Code. 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(1) 
OMB (Director 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with Secretary 
of Homeland 
Security) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—a summary of the incidents described in the annual reports 
required to be submiƩed under secƟon 3554(c)(1), including a summary of 
the informaƟon required under secƟon 3554(c)(1)(A)(iii); 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(2) 
OMB (Director 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with Secretary 
of Homeland 
Security) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—a descripƟon of the threshold for reporƟng major informaƟon 
security incidents; 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(3) 
OMB (Director 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with Secretary 
of Homeland 
Security) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—a summary of the results of evaluaƟons required to be 
performed under secƟon 3555;

--- Página 161 ---
161 
A.3 
FISMA 
RESPONSIBILITY 
BREAKDOWNS  
SecƟon  
SubsecƟon  
Party 
Responsible  
Responsibility  
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(4) 
OMB (Director 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with Secretary 
of Homeland 
Security) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—an assessment of agency compliance with standards 
promulgated under secƟon 11331 of Ɵtle 40; and 
§ 3553. 
Authority and 
funcƟons of 
the Director 
and the 
Secretary 
c(5) 
OMB (Director 
of) (in 
consultaƟon 
with Secretary 
of Homeland 
Security) 
REPORT.—Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director, in consultaƟon 
with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a report on the eﬀecƟveness of 
informaƟon security policies and pracƟces during the preceding year, 
including—an assessment of agency compliance with data breach 
noƟﬁcaƟon policies and procedures issued by the Director.

--- Página 162 ---
162 
A.4 
GSA SERVICES 
CATALOG  
The table below was provided by GSA to demonstrate the government-wide services and acquisiƟon vehicles available 
to agencies. A short descripƟon is provided for each service. Please follow the links to the services for details and 
ordering informaƟon.  
Service  
Short DescripƟon  
Category  
FedSIM 
GSA FEDSIM provides assisted acquisiƟon support 
for informaƟon technology systems and services, 
and professional services, to other U.S. 
Government agencies on a fee for service basis. 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
BPAs 
BPAs oﬀer an excellent opƟon for federal agencies 
and Schedule contractors alike, providing 
convenience, eﬃciency, and reduced costs. 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
Networx 
A broad range of domesƟc and internaƟonal 
network services including managed security 
services through the Managed Trusted Internet 
Protocol Services (MTIPS) program 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
IT Schedule 70 
IT Schedule 70 delivers federal, state, and local 
customer agencies the tools and experƟse needed 
to shorten procurement cycles, ensure compliance, 
and obtain the best value for innovaƟve technology 
products, services, and soluƟons. 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
FedRAMP 
GSA-led assessment and authorizaƟon program 
that is mandatory for cloud infrastructures oﬀered 
to the federal government. 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
Cloud.gov 
GSA provides a secure infrastructure plaƞorm as a 
service to federal teams (i.e., oﬀers a cloud-hosƟng 
product line) 
Cyber AcquisiƟon

--- Página 163 ---
163 
A.4 
GSA SERVICES 
CATALOG  
Service  
Short DescripƟon  
Category  
Login.gov 
Federated credenƟal management for public-
private programs 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
FASt Lane 
AssisƟng established IT vendors with being listed on 
IT Sched 70 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
Springboard 
AssisƟng innovaƟve IT vendors w/ fewer than 2 
years’ experience with being listed on IT Sched 70 
Cyber AcquisiƟon 
Project Boise 
Examining ways to shorten the Ɵmeline associated 
with geƫng a system authorized to operate on 
federal networks. 
Cyber Engagement 
ICAM 
Security disciplines that enable the right individual 
to access the right resource, at the right Ɵme, for 
the right reason. 
Cyber Policy 
DCOI 
GSA OGP is the data center shared services 
coordinator, serving as a trusted agent and SME to 
assist data center providers and consumers by 
providing guidance on technology advancements, 
innovaƟon, cybersecurity, and best pracƟces 
Cyber Policy 
CIO Council 
The Oﬃce of ExecuƟve Councils provides dedicated 
support to Federal interagency management 
councils, increasing their eﬀecƟveness in solving 
challenges across agencies, spurring innovaƟon and 
improving policy outcomes.
Cyber Policy 
PACS 
GSA provides guidance and support to federal 
agencies to standardize the implementaƟon of 
Physical/Cyber security systems across government 
Cyber Policy

--- Página 164 ---
164 
A.4 
GSA SERVICES 
CATALOG  
Service  
Short DescripƟon  
Category  
SSA 
GSA and the Federal ProtecƟve Service (at DHS) are 
co-leads with the role to coordinate informaƟon 
sharing, resilience, and protecƟve measures for 
Government FaciliƟes, the criƟcal informaƟon they 
contain, and the strategic locaƟons they inhabit, 
where the risk of intrusion may be heightened. 
Cyber Policy 
TFS 
Ongoing GSA program to collaborate with industry 
to cerƟfy soluƟons for US government agencies to 
use in online idenƟty prooﬁng and authenƟcaƟon 
services 
Cyber Policy 
DCIM 
GSA provides standards and best pracƟces 
regarding the best tools and processes to 
catalogue, manage and monitor data center assets 
Cyber Policy 
Federalist 
Secure website publishing service 
Cyber Services 
FPKI 
OperaƟon and maintenance of FPKI cybersecurity 
criƟcal infrastructure, foundaƟonal to Federal 
IdenƟty, CredenƟal, and Access Management 
(FICAM) to secure informaƟon technology assets 
government-wide. 
Cyber Services 
USAccess 
Oﬀers PIV card issuance to government agencies 
through a shared enrollment/acƟvaƟon 
infrastructure and end-to-end credenƟal 
maintenance
Cyber Services 
Dotgov 
The Gov Domain is the Top Level Internet Domain 
for the United States Government and many state, 
local and tribal governments. 
Cyber Services 
HACS 
HACS Special Item Numbers (SINs) provide agencies 
quicker access to key, pre-veƩed cybersecurity 
support services 
Cyber Services

--- Página 165 ---
165 
A.4 
GSA SERVICES 
CATALOG  
Service  
Short DescripƟon  
Category  
CDM 
CDM SINs provide agencies quicker access to key, 
pre-veƩed cybersecurity tools 
Cyber Services 
Bug Bounty 
Program oﬀering a monetary reward (or "bounty") 
to qualiﬁed people who idenƟfy issues (or "bugs") 
with program-idenƟﬁed services. 
Cyber Services 
GSA Smartpay 
GSA rollout of secure microchip & PIN enabled 
charge cards to its account holders (purchase, 
travel, integrated, and some ﬂeet card users) 
Cyber Services

--- Página 166 ---
166 
A.5 GLOSSARY  
The following deﬁniƟons apply for the purposes of this document. All deﬁniƟons are based on those in OMB Circular A
-130 – Managing InformaƟon as a Strategic Resource unless otherwise cited. 
Agency 
any execuƟve agency or department, Federal Government corporaƟon, Federal 
Government-controlled corporaƟon, or other establishment in the ExecuƟve Branch 
of the Federal Government, or any independent regulatory agency. 
  
NOTE: The term “agency” is used to refer to both large and small agencies for the 
purposes of this handbook. The term “organizaƟon” is also used to refer to large 
agencies, small agencies, and components within agencies that may have a CISO or 
equivalent posiƟon. 
Breach 
as the loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized 
acquisiƟon, or any similar occurrence where (1) a person other than an authorized 
user accesses or potenƟally accesses PII, or (2) an authorized user accesses PII for an 
unauthorized purpose.51 
Binding OperaƟonal DirecƟve 
(BOD) 
a compulsory direcƟon from the Department of Homeland Security to an agency that 
is for the purposes of safeguarding Federal informaƟon and informaƟon systems 
from a known or reasonably suspected informaƟon security threat, vulnerability, or 
risk; shall be in accordance with policies, principles, standards, and guidelines issued 
by the Director of the Oﬃce of Management and Budget; and may be revised or 
repealed by the Director if the direcƟon issued on behalf of the Director is not in 
Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer (CIO) 
the senior oﬃcial that provides advice and other assistance to the head of the 
agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that IT is 
acquired and informaƟon resources are managed for the agency in a manner that 
achieves the agency’s strategic goals and informaƟon resources management goals; 
and is responsible for ensuring agency compliance with, and prompt, eﬃcient, and 
eﬀecƟve implementaƟon of, the informaƟon policies and informaƟon resources 
management responsibiliƟes, including the reducƟon of informaƟon collecƟon 
burdens on the public. 
51M-18-02 – Fiscal Year 2017-2018 Guidance on Federal InformaƟon Security and Privacy Management Requirements hƩps://
www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/M-18-02%20%28ﬁnal%29.pdf

--- Página 167 ---
167 
A.5 GLOSSARY  
Chief InformaƟon Security 
Oﬃcer (CISO) 
the senior informaƟon security oﬃcer to whom the Chief InformaƟon Oﬃcer delegates tasks 
related to informaƟon security under FISMA (35 U.S.C. § 3554) 
CriƟcal infrastructure 
systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the 
incapacity or destrucƟon of such systems and assets would have a debilitaƟng impact on 
security, naƟonal economic security, naƟonal public health safety, or any combinaƟon of 
those maƩers (42 U.S.C. § 5195c(e)). 
Cybersecurity 
prevenƟon of damage to, protecƟon of, and restoraƟon of computers, electronic 
communicaƟons systems, electronic communicaƟons services, wire communicaƟon, and 
electronic communicaƟon, including informaƟon contained therein, to ensure its availability, 
integrity, authenƟcaƟon, conﬁdenƟality, and nonrepudiaƟon. 
NOTE: In this handbook, cybersecurity and informaƟon security are used interchangeably, but 
this is not the case in all Federal publicaƟons and policies. 
Incident 
an occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the 
conﬁdenƟality, integrity, or availability of informaƟon or an informaƟon system; or 
consƟtutes a violaƟon or imminent threat of violaƟon of law, security policies, security 
procedures, or acceptable use policies (44 U.S.C. § 3552). 
InformaƟon System 
means an informaƟon system used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency 
or by another organizaƟon on behalf of an agency. 
InformaƟon 
any communicaƟon or representaƟon of knowledge such as facts, data, or opinions in any 
medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narraƟve, electronic, or 
audiovisual forms. 
InformaƟon Security 
means the protecƟon of informaƟon and informaƟon systems from unauthorized access, use, 
disclosure, disrupƟon, modiﬁcaƟon, or destrucƟon in order to provide: 
a) Integrity, which means guarding against improper informaƟon modiﬁcaƟon or 
destrucƟon, and includes ensuring informaƟon non-repudiaƟon and authenƟcity;
b) ConﬁdenƟality, which means preserving authorized restricƟons on access and 
disclosure, including means for protecƟng personal privacy and proprietary informaƟon; 
and 
c) Availability, which means ensuring Ɵmely and reliable access to and use of informaƟon 
(44 U.S.C. § 3552). 
NOTE: In this handbook, cybersecurity and informaƟon security are used interchangeably, but 
this is not the case in all Federal publicaƟons and policies.

--- Página 168 ---
168 
A.5 GLOSSARY  
InformaƟon security 
conƟnuous monitoring (ISCM) 
maintaining ongoing awareness of informaƟon security, vulnerabiliƟes, threats, and incidents 
to support agency risk management decisions. 
 NOTE: The terms conƟnuous and ongoing in this context mean that security controls and 
agency risks are assessed and analyzed at a frequency suﬃcient to support risk-based 
security decisions to adequately protect agency informaƟon. 
InformaƟon technology (IT) 
any services or equipment, or interconnected system(s) or subsystem(s) of equipment, that 
are used in the automaƟc acquisiƟon, storage, analysis, evaluaƟon, manipulaƟon, 
management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or recepƟon 
of data or informaƟon by the agency. For purposes of this deﬁniƟon, such services or 
equipment if used by the agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the 
agency that requires its use; or to a signiﬁcant extent, its use in the performance of a service 
or the furnishing of a product. The term “informaƟon technology” includes computers, 
ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices 
necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by 
the central processing unit of a computer, soOware, ﬁrmware and similar procedures, 
services (including cloud compuƟng and help-desk services or other professional services 
which support any point of the life cycle of the equipment or service), and related resources. 
The term “informaƟon technology” does not include any equipment that is acquired by a 
contractor incidental to a contract which does not require its use (40 U.S.C. § 11101). 
Major incident 
any incident that is likely to result in demonstrable harm to the naƟonal security interests, 
foreign relaƟons, the economy of the United States; or to the public conﬁdence, civil 
liberƟes, or public health and safety of the American people.52 
Personally idenƟﬁable 
informaƟon (PII) 
informaƟon that can be used to disƟnguish or trace an individual’s idenƟty, either alone or 
when combined with other informaƟon that is linked or linkable to a speciﬁc individual. 
Privacy impact assessment 
(PIA)
an analysis of how informaƟon is handled to ensure handling conforms to applicable legal, 
regulatory, and policy requirements regarding privacy; to determine the risks and eﬀects of 
creaƟng, collecƟng, using, processing, storing, maintaining, disseminaƟng, disclosing, and 
disposing of informaƟon in idenƟﬁable form in an electronic informaƟon system; and to 
examine and evaluate protecƟons and alternate processes for handling informaƟon to 
miƟgate potenƟal privacy concerns. A privacy impact assessment is both an analysis and a 
formal document detailing the process and the outcome of the analysis. 
52M-18-02 – Fiscal Year 2017-2018 Guidance on Federal InformaƟon Security and Privacy Management Requirements hƩps://
www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/ﬁles/omb/memoranda/2017/M-18-02%20%28ﬁnal%29.pdf

--- Página 169 ---
169 
A.5 GLOSSARY  
Risk 
a measure of the extent to which an enƟty is threatened by a potenƟal circumstance or 
event, and typically is a funcƟon of: (i) the adverse impact, or magnitude of harm, that would 
arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and (ii) the likelihood of occurrence. Risk can 
include both informaƟon security and privacy risks. 
Risk management 
the program and supporƟng processes to manage risk to agency operaƟons (including 
mission, funcƟons, image, reputaƟon), agency assets, individuals, other organizaƟons, and 
the NaƟon, and includes: establishing the context for risk-related acƟviƟes; assessing risk; 
responding to risk once determined; and monitoring risk over Ɵme. 
Risk management strategy 
the descripƟon of how an agency intends to assess risk, respond to risk, and monitor risk, 
making explicit and transparent the risk percepƟons that organizaƟons rouƟnely use in 
making both investment and operaƟonal decisions. 
Security category 
the characterizaƟon of informaƟon or an informaƟon system based on an assessment of the 
potenƟal impact that a loss of conﬁdenƟality, integrity, or availability of such informaƟon or 
informaƟon system would have on agency operaƟons, agency assets, individuals, other 
organizaƟons, and the NaƟon. 
Security control 
the safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an informaƟon system or an organizaƟon 
to protect the conﬁdenƟality, integrity, and availability of the system and its informaƟon. 
Security control assessment 
the tesƟng or evaluaƟon of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls 
are implemented correctly, operaƟng as intended, and producing the desired outcome with 
respect to meeƟng the security requirements for an informaƟon system or organizaƟon. 
Security control baseline 
the set of minimum security controls deﬁned for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-
impact informaƟon system. 
Senior Agency Oﬃcial for 
Privacy (SAOP) 
the senior oﬃcial, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility 
for privacy, including implementaƟon of privacy protecƟons; compliance with Federal laws, 
regulaƟons, and policies relaƟng to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a 
central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluaƟon of legislaƟve, 
regulatory, and other policy proposals. 
Tailoring 
the process by which security control baselines are modiﬁed by idenƟfying and designaƟng 
common controls; applying scoping consideraƟons; selecƟng compensaƟng controls; 
assigning speciﬁc values to agency-deﬁned control parameters; supplemenƟng baselines with 
addiƟonal controls or control enhancements; and providing addiƟonal speciﬁcaƟon 
informaƟon for control implementaƟon. The tailoring process may also be applied to privacy 
controls.

