=== Cloud Security Best Practices .pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
Cloud Security Best 
Practices 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 1.0 
Ministry of Electronics & 
Information Technology,  
Government of India 
Cloud Management Office

--- Página 2 ---
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER 
 
 
This document has been prepared by Cloud Management Office (CMO) under Ministry of 
Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). This document is advisory in nature and aims 
to provide information in respect of the GI Cloud (MeghRaj) Initiative. 
   
Certain commercial entities, technology, or materials may be identified in this document in order 
to describe a concept adequately. Such identification is not intended to imply recommendation or 
endorsement by MeitY. 
  
While every care has been taken to ensure that the contents of this Document are accurate and up 
to date, the readers are advised to exercise discretion and verify the precise current provisions of 
law and other applicable instructions from the original sources. It represents practices as on the 
date of issue of this Document, which are subject to change without notice. The document enlists 
practices around basic controls and is not prescriptive in nature. The readers are responsible for 
making their own independent assessment of the information in this document. 
  
In no event shall MeitY or its' contractors be liable for any compensations whatsoever (including, 
without restriction, damages for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information) arising 
out of the use of or inability to use this document.

--- Página 3 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 3 of 55 
 
Contents 
1. 
Purpose ......................................................................................................................... 4 
2. Background ................................................................................................................... 5 
3. Introduction .................................................................................................................. 6 
3.1 
Security in Cloud .............................................................................................................. 6 
3.2 
Need for Cloud Security ................................................................................................... 8 
3.3 
On-premise Data Centre Security and Cloud Security ................................................... 12 
3.3.1 
On-premise Data Centre Security ............................................................................ 13 
3.3.2 
Cloud Security .......................................................................................................... 13 
4. Cloud Security Design Principles / considerations.................................................... 16 
5. Guidelines/Best practices for Cloud Security Adoption ............................................ 16 
5.1 
A Layered Approach towards Security ............................................................................ 17 
5.1.1 Data ............................................................................................................................. 18 
5.1.2 
Application .............................................................................................................. 20 
5.1.3 
Host/ Compute ....................................................................................................... 24 
5.1.4 
Network................................................................................................................... 26 
5.1.5 
Identity and Access ................................................................................................. 29 
5.1.6 
Perimeter and Physical ........................................................................................... 32 
5.2 
Cloud Security Assessment ............................................................................................ 34 
5.3 
Next Generation Model in Cloud Security – Zero Trust ................................................ 39 
5.3.1 
Principles of Zero Trust Model ............................................................................... 40 
5.4 
Standards applicable for Security .................................................................................. 42 
5.4.1 
ISO/ IEC 27000 Family of Information Security Management System ................ 42 
5.4.2 
PCI DSS ................................................................................................................... 43 
5.4.3 
Sector specific standards ........................................................................................ 43 
5.5 
Cloud Security in a Multi-cloud/ Hybrid Cloud environment ....................................... 44 
6. Cloud Security Governance ........................................................................................ 48 
7. 
Cloud Security as a shared responsibility model ....................................................... 50

--- Página 4 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 4 of 55 
 
1. Purpose 
This document is prepared to assist the Government Departments in easier understanding & 
navigating through the best practices for Cloud Security. Cloud Security is one of the key 
aspects while considering cloud deployment options and imbibing the best practices laid down 
in this document shall further the Government Department’s trust on Cloud and thereby 
facilitate a better use and adoption.  
The document has primarily been segmented into 3 sections of which the first section shall 
deal with the approach and need of cloud security. The second section shall compare the 
aspects of traditional vs cloud security along with best practices of cloud security broken down 
across the various layers of Cloud. The final section elaborates on the shared responsibility 
model of Cloud Security wherein the Departments and Cloud Service Providers play critical 
roles in ensuring security of the cloud deployment.

--- Página 5 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 5 of 55 
 
2. Background 
The Government of India has paved the way for mass adoption of Cloud services by the 
Government and Public sector organizations by empaneling the CSPs with Ministry of 
Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY). The CSPs are empaneled to offer 
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Software as a Service 
(SaaS) under the three Cloud Deployment models namely, Public Cloud (PC), Virtual Private 
Cloud (VPC) and Government Community Cloud (GCC).  
With time, the Government Departments have started evaluating, planning, and adopting 
Cloud Services from the empaneled CSPs. As the adoption of technology within the 
Government Departments is evolving, it is intrinsic that the application workloads of the 
Government Departments are becoming complex in nature. Hence, it has become a 
prerogative for the Government Departments to imbibe certain practices around security 
while designing the cloud deployment for the workload.  
Gaps in Cloud Security: While Cloud adoption across departments is progressing, Security 
is the key area to safeguard the Government data, so Department stakeholders must be aware 
of Cloud security best practices to address the security of data, information processing and 
technical measures in Cloud computing to protect it against unauthorized access of the data 
processing and travelling over internet/network and prevent accidental or unlawful 
tempering of data or loss/theft of data. Departments to adopt the required controls to restrict 
unauthorized use of data/information. Thus, it is imperative to develop certain practices 
around Cloud Security which will enable the Government Departments in ensuring a robust 
cloud deployment architecture and application security on CSP platform.

--- Página 6 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 6 of 55 
 
3. Introduction 
3.1 Security in Cloud 
Information Technology Security also known as, IT Security is the process of implementing 
measures and systems designed to securely protect and safeguard information (department 
and personal data, conversational information, still images, motion pictures, multimedia 
presentations, including those not yet conceived) utilizing various forms of technology 
developed to create, store, use and exchange such information against any unauthorized 
access, misuse, malfunction, modification, destruction, or improper disclosure, thereby 
preserving the value, confidentiality, integrity, availability, intended use and its ability to 
perform their permitted critical functions. 
Cloud security encompasses managing people, process & technology with thorough policies, 
that safeguard data and applications operating in the cloud. Cloud security includes 
examining how a Government department processes and stores data and then outline a 
customized approach to comprehensively protect the data. Departments can rarely afford a 
monumental hit to their reputation, so employing the best cloud security practices is critical 
for any modern department. 
Cloud security has evolved pretty much as security has evolved for all new technologies and 
innovations. In the unfortunate event of a Government department experiencing such a 
breach, having a cloud incident response plan in place is crucial to mitigate the impact of 
suspicious activity and minimize damage. Enduring any catastrophic event is traumatic 
enough, but how the department reacts after such an event will often determine the fate of 
that department. The department’s response plan will often determine the cost of a cyber 
breach. 
 
 
 
 
The adoption of cloud computing within Government Departments has created tremendous 
opportunity not only for cloud service providers, but also for cloud security specialists. 
Security Requirements as published in the empanelment RFP (refer Empanelment of 
Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) https://meity.gov.in/content/gi-cloud-meghraj) elaborate on 
the security requirement needed to be complied by the aspirant CSPs when applying for 
Today, Government Departments can build security as an integrated 
part of the migration to IaaS services by optimizing security 
processes and identifying security components that would integrate 
seamlessly with their cloud requirement

--- Página 7 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 7 of 55 
 
empanelment to offer their services to the Government Departments. The services offered by 
CSPs are to be availed by Government Departments as per their requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a public cloud offering ensuring cloud security through the use of software controls, role-
based permissions, storage, hypervisor separation is made available. In case the Departments 
seek further level of isolation or separation of workload and data between the cloud 
consumers, other Cloud Deployment Models such as GCC or VPC may be considered. 
With inherent benefits of cloud enabling Government Department to focus majorly on their 
applications, cloud security has always been an area which draws major attention while 
evaluating cloud. Though the empanelment addresses security requirements to be met by the 
empaneled CSPs, Government Departments would additionally need to adopt certain 
practices to securely roll-out their applications/services. Certain practices around cloud 
security which the Departments may adopt in their cloud enablement journey are highlighted 
in this document. 
In the cloud environment, Departments rely on CSP security and control to maintain the 
secure environment and mitigate potential risk, if Cloud Service Provider (CSP) does not 
adequately manage the responsibility of addressing IT and Cyber security parameters / 
controls at each layer, the way it should be placed in Cloud environment. So, Departments 
needs to ensure required Security Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are in place for CSP to 
adhere with necessary security services. 
 
 
 
 
 
Government Community Cloud allows for physical separation of infrastructure (server, 
storage, network) from Public and Virtual Private Cloud offering of the Cloud Service 
Provider 
Virtual Private Cloud allows for logical separation of infrastructure (server, storage, 
network) from other offerings of the Cloud Service Provider with strong/robust tenant 
isolation

--- Página 8 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 8 of 55 
 
3.2  Need for Cloud Security 
Although cloud computing services are a great option for Government Departments, there are 
some risks that come with the technology offered. Since the inception of cloud computing by 
Government of India, multiple Departments have been steadily switching to the empaneled 
cloud service providers. This availability of valuable data in a single location makes CSPs a 
prime target for malicious activity. 
Government Departments directly or through their SIs, MSPs need to collaborate with CSPs 
in order to secure their critical data and ensure necessary security measures are in place. Apart 
from MeitY imposed regulations/ compliances, a security fabric needs to be merged at the 
data centre and cloud level. Issues such as insider threats are becoming a prevalent concern 
for many CSPs. Certain security concerns (including some OWASP Cloud Security risks) have 
been covered below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Loss 
Malicious 
Insider 
Insecure 
API 
Shared 
Responsibility 
Insufficient 
Due 
Diligence 
Denial of 
Service 
Improper 
Cloud 
Account 
Mgmt. 
Security 
Concerns 
Data 
Breaches 
Regulatory 
Compliance 
Figure 1: Cloud Security Concerns

--- Página 9 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 9 of 55 
 
1. Data Breaches 
Though Cloud computing services are new and critical, yet data breaches in all forms 
have existed for decades. One of the main questions which generally Government 
Departments come across is “With department’s sensitive data being stored online 
rather than on premise, is the cloud safe?” 
Cloud would provide the User Departments with enhanced security measures and 
necessary certifications. As per the MeitY empanelment of Cloud Service Provider 
(CSP), all CSPs enforce security controls as per ISO 27001, 27017 etc. but due to non- 
enforcement of security policies by the Government Department users it may lead to 
data breaches. 
 
2. Improper Cloud Account Management 
The development and execution of the cloud in many organizations has opened a 
whole new set of issues in account attacks and hijackings. 
Attackers now can use the department’s cloud login accounts information to remotely 
access critical/sensitive data stored on the platform / cloud; additionally, attackers can 
misrepresent and manipulate information through hijacked credentials. 
Hence appropriate cloud account management methodologies need to be 
implemented. In some cases, a Managed Service Provider (MSP) may also have access 
to Government Department cloud account hence appropriate controls should be 
implemented for such a condition as well. 
3. Insider Threat 
An intrusion in Government department may seem unlikely, but the insider threat 
does exist. Government Department’s users can use their authorized access to 
department’s cloud-based services to misuse or access information such as citizen 
information, financial information, and other sensitive information. 
Hence it becomes imperative for Government Departments to implement a secure 
strategy for their cloud implementation and access and ensure that proper access 
control mechanism is in place to avoid security issues. 
4. Regulatory Compliance 
Data that is perceived to be secure in one country may not be perceived as secure in 
another country or region. Hence data ownership and governance become important 
factors while choosing cloud.

--- Página 10 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 10 of 55 
 
As per MeitY’s empanelment all empaneled Cloud Service Provider would be offering 
cloud services out of Indian Data Centre facilities and ensure data residency within the 
country. Data ownership resides with the Government Department. 
5. Insecure APIs 
Application Programming Interfaces (API) give operators the opportunity to 
customize their cloud platform. Even though APIs give users the ability to customize 
features of their cloud services to suffice the needs, but they also affect encryption , 
authentication and provision for access / controls. 
The growth of APIs provides better services and do increase security risks.  APIs give 
programmers the gears to build their programs to integrate their applications. The 
vulnerability of an API lies in the communication that takes place between 
applications. They also originate an opportunity for exploitable security risks. 
6. Denial of Service Attacks 
Unlike other kinds of cyberattacks, which are launched to establish a foothold and 
extract sensitive information over a longer span of time, denial-of-service attacks do 
not attempt to just breach the security perimeter. Rather, they attempt to make the 
services and servers unavailable to Department’s legitimate users. In certain cases, 
DoS is also used as a cover for malicious activities and directed attack to take down 
security appliances such as WAF (Web Application Firewalls). 
7. Insufficient Due Diligence 
The issues listed above are technical in nature, however this particular security gap 
occurs when a Government Department doesn’t have a clear path for its resources and 
policies for the cloud.  
Due diligence for controls internal to cloud services need to be monitored by the 
Government Departments. There are multiple service parameters which need to be 
configured in a manner that they may not lead to operational, reputational or 
compliance issues. Insufficient due diligence may pose a major security risk when a 
Government Department overlooks certain cloud configurations at the user level. 
8. Shared Responsibilities 
Cloud security is a shared responsibility between the Cloud Service Provider and the 
Cloud consumer. This collaboration between consumer and provider requires the 
consumer to take necessary actions to protect their data. While major global Cloud 
Service Providers do have standardized procedures to secure their side, fine grain 
controls are up to the consumers.

--- Página 11 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 11 of 55 
 
The bottom line is that consumers and providers have shared responsibilities and 
omitting the user’s responsibilities can result in their data being compromised. For 
further details kindly refer to Section 5 Cloud Security as a Shared Responsibility 
Model. 
9. Data Loss 
Data on cloud platform can be lost through a natural disaster, data deletion or 
malicious attack by the service provider. Losing critical data / information can be 
devastating to businesses without a recovery plan.  
The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) has additionally listed certain Cloud 
Security concerns such as User Identity Federation, Business Continuity and Resilience, 
Service and Data integration, Multi-tenancy and Physical security, Infrastructure Security 
which have been addressed in the requirements laid down as a part of empanelment of Cloud 
Service Providers by MeitY. These requirements make CSPs accountable for their 
responsibilities towards cloud security.

--- Página 12 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 12 of 55 
 
3.3   On-premise Data Centre Security and Cloud Security 
Today, data is the key that drives the operations of departments. Such data helps keeping track 
of the performance, discover value adding insights, and improve security. 
Data also plays a primary role in defining and outlining various IT security policies, be it on-
premise or cloud setup. While some departments prefer in-house data collection and 
management, others opt for cloud migration because of its services availability and scalability. 
Cloud technologies have ensured easier management of data, especially ensuring enhanced 
data security. As the cloud ensures on demand infrastructure access, Departments are able to 
implement and maintain effective and efficient cloud security frameworks that can manage 
and tackle emergent threats. 
 
Differentiating between traditional IT security and cloud security is very important. Each has 
its own set of advantages / limitations and being aware of both approaches will strengthen the 
Department’s operational decision making. 
 
 
IT Security
On-premise Data Centre 
Security
Cloud Security

--- Página 13 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 13 of 55 
 
3.3.1 On-premise Data Centre Security 
An effective IT framework involves installing, purchasing, and maintaining the devices on-
site. The traditional IT framework ensures collection, storage, and processing of data for 
various functions. Additionally, traditional IT infrastructure enables the departments to 
implement data security plans. This implies Government Departments to have the freedom of 
choosing the right security devices that need to be incorporated in the architecture, ways to 
manage network controls, and respond to incoming threats. The department would also take 
charge of detecting incoming threats and responding to it and maintaining a disaster recovery 
plan. 
A traditional IT approach gives the department increased control over daily usage of each 
device. It is possible to monitor and control data along with daily data management and the 
data resides within department premises. Though an on-premise setup would need training 
of existing Department resources on emerging security technologies.  
However, the biggest challenge with traditional IT systems is the Capital Expenditure required 
to install and maintain the security components. Asset refresh for end of life security 
components would also add to capital expenditure for the departments. The department is 
tasked with the responsibility to manage and monitor security related compliances / 
certifications which in turn are capital intensive and would require internal capabilities within 
the Department. Hence gaps in the security related practices may give rise to vulnerabilities.  
Traditional IT systems also demand larger in-house personnel to manage the hardware and 
handle security incident responses and monitoring. While this may lead to additional control 
over data processes, there lies considerable cost implications. 
 
3.3.2 Cloud Security 
Unlike traditional IT systems, cloud computing refers to on demand access of infrastructure 
and services. Herein the CSP is responsible for making available the cloud platform and 
services portfolio which is configured and managed by the MSP for the client/user. Depending 
on the skillset, the user may themselves configure and manage the cloud platform in which 
case an MSP may not be required. 
Cloud computing allows the Government Departments to access the software, hardware, and 
other necessary infrastructure required to run its daily operations. Furthermore, the cloud 
ensures easier data management and system security. Instead of controlling every aspect of 
data security control on-site, the Department can easily outsource the data security needs to 
a prominent and reputable Managed Service Provider.

--- Página 14 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 14 of 55 
 
On-premises infrastructure may be more exposed to small slip-ups and errors that can be 
prone to cyber-attacks. Furthermore, most cloud developers are more experienced with 
advanced security and data governance models. This means that the Departments will be able 
to plan appropriate strategies to ensure real time risk mitigation. An important reason for the 
reluctance to move more data into the cloud are the concerns around security.  
A comparison between On-premise and cloud setups with security at the centre has been 
highlighted below: 
Though the On-premise setup for the Government Department allows complete control over 
the setup, in terms of cloud, multiple features such as infrastructure provisioning and 
maintenance, compliances and certifications, technology refresh are handled by the Cloud 
Service Provider allowing Government Department to focus on application delivery. Previous 
 
On-premise/ Co-located 
DC 
Cloud 
Technical 
Expertise 
Government Department’s own 
team or an IT Managed Service 
Provider 
Cloud Managed Service 
Provider 
Security 
Technology 
Upgrade 
Less frequent 
More frequent 
Physical DC 
Security 
Government Department/ Co-
location DC Provider 
Cloud Service Provider 
IT 
Infrastructure 
Security 
Government Department/Co-
location DC Provider 
Cloud Service Provider 
Vulnerability/ 
Security 
Patching 
Depends on support levels and 
technical expertise of in-house 
team 
More frequent and up to date 
Certifications & 
Compliances 
Government Department 
Cloud Service Provider 
Resiliency 
(Downtime) 
Less Resilient with varying 
commitments on downtime 
More Resilient and committed 
uptime and availability SLAs

--- Página 15 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 15 of 55 
 
constraining factors such as concerns for data security and privacy are weakening as the cloud 
providers continue to invest in successfully hardening their security and privacy profiles and 
standards.

--- Página 16 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 16 of 55 
 
4. Cloud Security Design Principles / considerations 
 
The security design principles are the key pillars for adoption and implementation of Cloud 
Security to protect system, application and platform to improve overall security architecture. 
Below are the key design principles which needs to be considered for Cloud technology 
adoption: 
1. Security at all layers: Ensure robust Security is applied to all layers (Physical, network, 
Data, Application, etc.) of their architecture with multiple security controls. This will 
ensure end to end protecting of application/data hosted by departments on Cloud 
platform. 
2. Safeguard data while at rest and in transit: Identify and Classify the data in terms 
of criticality/sensitivity and define their levels. This can be prevented via using the 
available security controls like access control, tokenization, encryption, etc. 
3. Monitoring and Auditing: Ensure monitoring, auditing and alerting is configured to 
capture the changes in the department’s system in real time. Further, log integration and 
metric collection can automatically investigate, act and respond. 
4. Access management and Controls: Ensure implementation of principle of selective 
privileges and impose segregation of duties with appropriate access and authorization. 
Centralized identity and access management can eliminate any unauthorized access and 
information loss/theft. 
5. Readiness for security events: Department/CSP needs to prepare system for any 
unusual security event. Regular vulnerability and security tests need to be conducted to 
identify the security gaps and issues. Several drill can be conducted to record the response 
of the Cloud systems at different layers. 
6. Automate security best practices: Automating software/hardware/Application 
based security system via AI/ML/Bots to improve the ability to secure environment which 
can perform regular checks and implement the controls needed to restrict the attack and 
enhance cloud security. 
7. Cloud Vendor Lock-in: Departments to ensure that there is no vendor lock-in by Cloud 
services provider while hosting the application/data, as there is no standard guidelines 
between different cloud providers for data migration and exports, so it becomes difficult 
to migrate data from one cloud provider to another or migration to on-premise Data 
centre. 
 
5. Guidelines/Best practices for Cloud Security Adoption 
For a Government Department migrating to cloud it is imperative to observe security 
discipline at various levels which ensures a secure adoption of cloud. The objective is to 
highlight certain industry best practices in cloud security which can be imbibed in the 
architecture of the Government Department’s cloud requirement which shall facilitate a sense 
of security and increase the confidence to adopt cloud.

--- Página 17 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 17 of 55 
 
In this section we shall look at best practices to be observed at various layers of a cloud 
deployment architecture along with standards to be adopted or understood while choosing 
cloud for delivery of services. 
5.1 A Layered Approach towards Security 
IT security encompasses the lowest security layers, from physical facilities through the 
Department’s implementation and configuration of IT infrastructure components. These are 
the basic components from which cloud is built, including networking, compute, and storage 
security. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is important to be aware of the infrastructure security parameters of the CSP. The provider 
(one who maintains the private cloud platform) in the shared security model has the 
responsibility to ensure the security of the underlying physical, abstraction, and orchestration 
layers of the cloud. While in this section we highlight the cloud security best practices across 
all the layers mentioned above, we shall also touch upon Privacy as an important aspect to be 
considered under cloud-based security. 
Data 
Application 
Host/ 
Compute 
Network 
Identity & 
Access 
Physical 
Physical and 
Perimeter
Identity & Access
Network
Host / 
Compute
Application
Data
Figure 2: Layered Approach towards Security

--- Página 18 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 18 of 55 
 
5.1.1 Data 
The cloud data protection methods do not particularly require any new technique. Data 
protection in the cloud is very similar to data protection in a traditional data centre. Identity 
and authentication, encryption, access control, secure deletion, data masking and integrity 
checking are all data protection methods that are applicable in cloud computing. 
Maintaining control over the data is paramount to cloud 
success. Today, with virtualization and the cloud, data 
may be under the Government Department’s logical 
control, but physically reside in infrastructure owned and 
managed by another entity. This shift in control is the 
primary reason new approaches and techniques are 
required to ensure organizations can maintain data 
security. When an outside party owns, controls, and 
manages infrastructure and computational resources, 
how can User Departments be assured that Departmental 
or regulatory data remains private and secure, and that 
the User Department is protected from damaging data 
breaches? 
Government Departments may adopt certain practices 
around data protection in order to overcome any 
reluctance around data security in Cloud. 
• 
Department need to be aware of the type of data 
being handled by them and hence they at their 
discretion may categorize and deploy relevant 
data on cloud considering protecting from 
inadequate Data access / deletion, backup 
Vulnerabilities, data leakage, compromise of 
management interface, malware attacks, etc. 
• 
Departments should adopt a data usage policy 
which clearly outlines various data access types, 
who has access to data and what conditions may 
constitute correct usage of data. There should be 
safeguards for policy violations and subsequent 
impact-based consequences.  
• 
Access control is one of the most key and crucial aspect of data protection in cloud 
wherein Government Departments would be responsible for ensuring Administrative 
and Technical Controls to manage data access on the cloud.  
 
Questions around 
assessing data security 
in Government 
Departments 
• What sensitive data 
do we possess? 
• What sensitive data 
do we have outside 
a secured location? 
• Is any particular 
sensitive data 
overexposed? 
• Who can access 
what kind of data? 
• Who owns the 
particular file or 
folder? 
• Have there been any 
changes to 
permissions of 
sensitive files?

--- Página 19 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 19 of 55 
 
The CSP shall be responsible for ensuring Physical Security of the deployed cloud infrastructure. 
Some of the practices around data security in cloud have been captured in this section.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
❖ Encryption is key to protect and secure data in transit and data at rest.  
o Multiple type of encryption can be implemented by CSP (i.e. Full Disk 
Encryption (FDE), Format Preserving Encryption, (FPE) Application 
layer Encryption, File Encryption, Database Encryption, etc.) 
o For protecting data in transit, choose encryption of sensitive data 
prior to moving to cloud and/or use encrypted connections (HTTPS, 
SSL, TLS, FTPS, etc.) to protect the contents of data in transit.  
o For protecting data at rest, Departments can simply encrypt sensitive 
data prior to storing them. 
❖ Consider use of service provider-managed encryption options. Where 
possible, use customer-managed keys as they provide better control. 
❖ Consider extra layer of data security via implementation of Data 
classification (Restricted, Confidential, Sensitive and Unclassified). 
❖ Ensure integrity of data while replicating from one site to another. 
❖ Create a data usage policy (data access control management, repercussion 
of policy violations, correct usage of data etc.) 
❖ Backup (Full, Incremental, Differential) data regularly to ensure 
availability of data and perform periodic recovery operations to check 
correctness. 
❖ Ensure data-level monitoring is in place, and logs meet all the compliance 
requirements, if any, of the department. 
Important points 
to remember

--- Página 20 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 20 of 55 
 
5.1.2 Application  
Applications are hosted on independent virtual machines. Applications/ Sensitive data are 
more vulnerable in cloud-platforms, as cloud environments are hosted on shared resources. 
So, special security measure / controls are required to safeguard the client environments. 
Cloud service providers ensure that departments / users only have access to the data which 
they are authorized to access on shared Cloud model.  
Use of micro-service architectures enhances the security further. Since optimizing the use of 
physical servers by the consumers is not a requirement, developers can instead deploy 
additional, smaller virtual machines, each dedicated to a specific function or a specific service. 
This minimizes the attack surface of the individual VMs and supports granular security 
controls. 
DevOps is an advanced methodology for application development focused on automating the 
end to end process of application development and deployment. DevOps builds many 
opportunities for security to improve version control management, change management, and 
enhanced security operations in general. 
DevOps isn’t just about development and operations teams. The agility and responsiveness of 
a DevOps approach can be fully utilized if IT security plays an integrated role in the full life 
cycle of the application development. 
Why? any Department may ask. In the past, the role of security was siloed to a specific team 
towards the final stage of development. That wasn’t as problematic when development cycles 
followed a waterfall methodology. DevOps ensures rapid and frequent development cycles 
(sometimes weeks or days) followed by Continuous Integrations and Continuous 
Deployments, but outdated and traditional security practices can adversely affect even the 
most efficient DevOps initiatives. 
Web application security refers to a process of protecting web apps and services available over 
internet and accessed through a browser. It protects against various security threats that 
exploit vulnerabilities in core / non-core applications. Key targets of attacks are sensitive data, 
content management system and other management/administrative applications. Key tools 
are being leveraged to protect department applications from intrusion. A web application 
firewall helps protect web applications by monitoring and filtering HTTP traffic between a 
web application and the Internet. It typically protects web applications from attacks such as, 
cross-site-scripting, SQL injection, file inclusion, as cross-site forgery, etc. It is implemented 
with defined set of rules / policies for protection. 
Data 
Application 
Host/ 
Compute 
Network 
Identity & 
Access 
Physical

--- Página 21 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 21 of 55 
 
Cloud APIs being provided by CSP’s to software developers 
to develop the interfaces to interact with provided cloud 
services. Addition of another layer requires security from 
vulnerabilities and attacks, so implementation of security 
tools /appliances on Cloud provider’s interface and enabling 
authentication / access control mechanism will help in 
enhancing the security layer for Cloud API. DevSecOps 
means introducing the role of application and infrastructure 
security teams from the start of the application development 
lifecycle. It also means automation of security gates to 
protect the DevOps workflow pipeline from slowing down. Selection of the right tools to 
continuously integrate security, like agreeing on an integrated development environment 
(IDE) with security features, can help achieve the desired objectives. However, the 
requirement of effective DevOps security is much more than just new tools—it builds on the 
cultural changes of DevOps to involve and integrate the work of security teams sooner rather 
than later. DevSecOps is making a significant difference in the IT industry, by ensuring a 
seamless software development life cycle (SDLC). Breaking the traditional trend of having 
security as a siloed process, DevSecOps calls for security integration across all stages of the 
software development process chain, addressing security concerns at the very start of every 
stage. DevSecOps approach to cloud security requires detailed planning that demands cultural 
change in an IT environment, especially for security automation and configuration of cloud 
assets. 
The success of DevSecOps implementation in a cloud environment is administered by the 
following factors: 
• 
Code Analysis – Continuous improvements to software means extensive code reviews.  
• 
Automated Testing – Automated testing ensures effort minimization and saves time. 
As a primary aspect of DevSecOps process, automated testing makes the testing 
process faster and easier through efficient execution of repeatable test cases. 
• 
Change Management – Fostering team collaboration to ensure that each team is aware 
of every other team’s operations.  If developers are informed about security-related 
activities from the start, it can help in timely address possible vulnerabilities. 
• 
Compliance Monitoring – Compliance continues to play a major role in an 
organization’s growth. Regulations help in code creation and source code 
modification. This helps in real time auditing. 
• 
Threat Investigation – Threat investigation is important to define the security 
readiness of any organization. It’s important for organizations to have a close and 
“DevSecOps” 
emphasizes the need 
to build a security 
foundation into 
DevOps initiatives

--- Página 22 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 22 of 55 
 
continuous watch on identifying probable threats, periodic security scans and code 
reviews to address prevalent challenges in security. 
• 
Personnel Training – Organizing hands-on training sessions and certification courses 
build the strength of the company by equipping teams with appropriate domain 
knowledge. 
For Multi-tier applications, deciding where to ensure security would perplex a lot of 
Government Departments: at the web server level or database level or across every component 
in the cloud setup? 
While multi-tier applications possess complex design methodologies, increase in the number 
and complexity of security mechanism may result in performance decline and unpredictable 
application behavior. Hence ensuring security while designing such complex multi-tier 
applications must involve more robust security assessment. Ensuring security provision and 
authorized access at the application level should be focused on post which the database may 
trust the application to authenticate and authorize end users to access data in the database. 
Database should be secured against any access except through the application. Ensure audit 
and logging at the application level while designing multi-tier applications.

--- Página 23 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 23 of 55 
 
 
 
Government Department may refer “Checklist for Secure Code Programming in Applications” ( 
https://meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/checklist_development.pdf) 
as 
well 
as 
“General 
Guidelines 
for 
Secure 
Application 
and 
Infrastructure” 
(https://meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/General_Guidelines.pdf) published on MeitY website 
while designing their applications.  
 
❖ Build security while initial design process of application. Creating Cloud 
Native applications presents an opportunity to engage cloud-based security 
early. 
❖ Deployment process to be integrated with security testing. 
❖ Encryption key management to maintain controls of all private / public 
encryption keys. Departments should understand the new architectural 
options and services available in the cloud. The departments should update 
their standards and security policies to support them and shouldn’t merely 
attempt to enforce existing standards entirely on model. 
❖ Segregation: Web facing application should be deployed in DMZ (De-
militarized) zone and the Database Server should be deployed in the secured 
zone while deploying the application on cloud. 
❖ Use of Web Application Firewall for Web apps and online portals 
❖ Application integration and information exchange to happen over secured API 
channels. 
❖ Security controls for interfaces and API’s 
❖ Log and monitor API calls. 
❖ Use software-defined security to automate security controls. 
❖ Use event-driven security such Anti-virus, when available, to automate 
detection and remediation of security issues. 
Important points 
to remember

--- Página 24 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 24 of 55 
 
5.1.3 Host/ Compute 
A workload is a unit of processing, which can be either a virtual machine, a container, or other 
abstraction. Workloads run on a processor and consume memory. Workloads include various 
processing tasks, that range from traditional applications running on a virtual machine on a 
standard OS to high GPU intensive workloads. It is recommended that virtual machine may 
be treated as if it was a physical machine for majority of the activities. Though an important 
point to note is that virtual machines are equally vulnerable to factors as in physical machines 
such as data loss/corruption, hardware failures, viruses, and hackers. 
Multiple types of compute offering in the cloud are described as below: 
• 
The Virtual Machine Manager (hypervisor) is responsible for abstraction of an 
underlying hardware from operating system. Hypervisors can tie into the capabilities 
of the underlying hardware to enforce isolation while supporting high-performance 
operations. Virtual machines are prone to certain memory attacks, but this is 
increasingly difficult due to ongoing hardware and software enhancements to 
reinforce isolation. VMs on today’s hypervisors are generally an effective security 
control, and advances in hardware isolation for VMs and secure execution 
environments continue to improve these capabilities. 
• 
Containers are code execution environments running within an operating system (for 
now) and sharing resources of that OS. Unlike VM which is an exact abstraction of an 
operating system, a container is an enclosed place to run distinct processes by utilizing 
the kernel and other capabilities of the base OS. Multiple containers can run on the 
same virtual machine or run directly on hardware without any OS. 
• 
Serverless is a category that refers to a situation where the cloud consumers don’t 
manage any of the underlying hardware or virtual machines, and just access exposed 
functions. But in the hindsight, they still utilize capabilities such as virtual machines, 
containers, or specialized hardware platforms. 
Any given processor and memory will always be running multiple workloads, often from 
different tenants. Multiple tenants share the same physical compute node, and there is a range 
of segregation capabilities on different hardware stacks.  
Certain practices around security in compute in cloud are described in the section below:  
Data 
Application 
Host/ 
Compute 
Network 
Identity & 
Access 
Physical

--- Página 25 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 25 of 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
❖ For critical workloads ensure High Availability at all deployment levels – 
compute, firewall, Load balancers. 
❖ Departments should ensure that as soon as the new application server is 
deployed, security scans should be enabled, and the servers should be added to 
continuous monitoring. 
❖ Integrate security testing and policies while VM image creation. 
❖ Disable remote access post application configuration.  
❖ Implement appropriate role-based access controls and strong authentication 
for all Virtual Machines (VM), Containers and VM images. 
❖ Employ the use of pre-certified VM images from the cloud platform where pre-
certification would be an on-going effort.  
❖ Prefer Patching of VM images rather than patching running instances. Ensure 
patching is up to date for Operating System, Database licenses etc. 
❖ Ensure VM level encryption through Bitlocker, LUKS etc. for security of VM in 
case of compromise 
❖ Ensure Operating System Hardening is performed on the virtual machine. 
❖ Take periodic VM snapshots and save in a secured repository. 
❖ Prefer use of file integrity monitoring in order to ensure authenticated changes 
and detect unapproved changes to files.  
❖ Store logs (including Audit logs) externally to workloads.  
❖ Install Anti-virus software on Virtual Machine and ensuring periodic patching 
is performed.  
❖ Perform periodic vulnerability assessments and penetration testing (VAPT) on 
Department’s cloud infrastructure. 
❖ In case of Business-Critical Applications plan for Disaster Recovery (DR). 
 
Important points to 
remember

--- Página 26 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 26 of 55 
 
5.1.4 Network 
There are various kinds of virtual networks, from basic VLANs to full Software-Defined 
Networks (SDNs). The data in transit also needs to secure through the network layer.  A cloud 
service provider needs to understand the department network traffic plan to send and receive 
data. Department to ensure CSP has implemented strong security controls for internal and 
external network separation / communication. CSP to ensure appropriate network 
segmentation which separates networks of different sensitivity levels. Most cloud computing 
platforms today use SDN for virtualizing the networks. SDN abstracts the network 
management plan from the underlying physical infrastructure, removing many typical 
networking constraints. For example, department can overlay multiple virtual networks over 
the same physical hardware, with all traffic properly isolated and segregated.  
SDNs are also defined using API calls and software settings, which supports agility and 
orchestration. Virtual networks are different from physical networks in a way that virtual 
networks run on physical networks, but abstraction allows deeper modifications on the 
networking behavior that impact security processes and technologies. 
It is pertinent to secure Cloud data transfers. Government Departments must ensure data 
protection as their data exchange to the cloud.  This demand understanding the CSP’s data 
migration mechanisms, as leveraging the mechanisms of the provider is often more cost 
effective and secure than “manual” data transfer methods such as Secure File Transfer 
Protocol (SFTP). For example, sending data to a CSP’s object storage over an API is likely to 
be more secure and reliable than setting up own SFTP server on a virtual machine in the same 
provider.  
There are a few options for in-transit encryption depending on what the cloud platform 
supports.  
• 
One option is to follow client-side encryption i.e. encrypt before sending to the cloud. 
• 
Another option is Network encryption (TLS/ SFTP/etc.). Most CSP APIs use Transport 
Layer Security (TLS) by default as this is an essential security capability.  
• 
Third option can be a Proxy-based encryption, where there is an encryption proxy in a 
trusted area between the CSP and the cloud consumer and the proxy manages the 
encryption before data transfer to the CSP.  
It’s a good practice to isolate and scan the data before integrating it. Logs need to be offloaded 
and externally collected more quickly due to the higher velocity of change in cloud. A practice 
such as collecting logs in an auto-scale group before the cloud controller shuts down such 
unneeded instances would safeguard Government Departments from any losses.  
 
Data 
Application 
Host/ 
Compute 
Network 
Identity & 
Access 
Physical

--- Página 27 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 27 of 55 
 
Protection is required from the threat of denial of service against CSP cloud computing 
resource which is generally an external threat against public cloud services. Distributed 
denial-of-service (DDoS) attack is a malicious attempt to disrupt the normal traffic of a 
targeted server, service or network by overwhelming the target or its surrounding 
infrastructure with a flood of Internet traffic. So, it is important for department to get the Anti-
DDoS services  adopted from CSP 
Certain practices which the Government Departments may consider while dealing with 
network security in cloud are as follows:

--- Página 28 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 28 of 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
❖ Use Virtual Private Network (SSL or Site to Site) to access Cloud 
infrastructure and services 
❖ For Department computers connected in a network, refrain from disabling 
any personal firewalls on the computers. 
❖ Use IP Whitelisting to allow connections from certain IPs and deny all others 
where applicable 
❖ Pre-certifying additional VLAN, firewall ports and load balancers. 
❖ Separate virtual networks and cloud accounts reduce security risks compared 
to traditional data centres.  
❖ Restriction of traffic between workloads in the same virtual subnet using a 
firewall policy needs to be followed whenever possible. 
❖ Dependency on virtual appliances that restrict elasticity or cause 
performance bottlenecks needs to be minimized 
❖ Implement policies and internal security controls to prevent traffic 
monitoring without approval or outside contractual agreements and 
consumer networks modifications 
❖ Departments should ensure that all new network segments should be 
registered security scans on deployment and then should be added to 
continuous monitoring. 
❖ An automated response to attacks should be configured and additional 
information on the intrusion must be acquired. IP blocking, connection 
termination and signature analysis are some of the processes under such an 
automated response.  
❖ Regularly monitor network traffic logs or implement a SIEM to get real-time 
security alerts generated by application and network devices. 
❖ Prefer use of SDN capabilities for multiple virtual networks and multiple 
cloud accounts/segments to increase network isolation. 
 
Important points to 
remember

--- Página 29 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 29 of 55 
 
5.1.5 Identity and Access 
Identity and Access Management (IAM) refers to defining and managing access privileges of 
individual network users, along with the circumstances in which users are permitted (or 
forbidden) those privileges. These users may either be external to the Department (e.g. 
citizens) or internal to the Department (e.g. employees). The core objective of IAM systems is 
one digital identity per individual. Once that digital identity has been established, it is utmost 
important to be maintained, modified and monitored throughout each user’s “access 
lifecycle.” 
Identity Management and Access Control security would include the following: 
• 
Using Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)  
o MFA may be utilized wherein a conditional access policy may be defined and 
authentication to be subject to LDAP or AD authentication. Detect potential 
vulnerabilities that affect the Department’s identities. Automated responses can be 
configured to detect suspicious actions that are related to the Department’s 
identities. It is important to investigate suspicious incidents and take appropriate 
action to resolve them. 
o MFA offers the option for reducing account takeovers as relying on a single factor 
(password) for cloud services poses high risks. MFA can be delivered using the 
following: 
▪ 
Hard tokens are physical devices that generate one-time passwords for 
human entry or need to be plugged into a reader. These ensure highest level 
of security. 
▪ 
Soft tokens are similar to hard tokens but are software applications that run 
on end device. Soft tokens are also a viable option but could be 
compromised if there is a compromise in the user’s device, and this risk 
needs to be considered in any threat model. 
▪ 
Out-of-band Passwords are text messages sent to a user’s phone (usually) 
and are then entered like one-time password generated by a token. Any 
threat model must consider message interception, especially with SMS.  
 
 
Data 
Application 
Host/ 
Compute 
Network 
Identity & 
Access 
Physical

--- Página 30 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 30 of 55 
 
• 
Using Access Control methodologies  
o While using Cloud services, access management of Cloud resources is critical for 
any Department. For instance, an identified access management methodology, 
such as Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), helps in managing access to cloud 
resources by end users, what these end users can do with the allocated resources, 
and what areas the end users would have access to. 
o Designating activities to specific roles in Cloud helps avoid confusion, which 
usually lead to human and automation errors thereby resulting in creating 
potential security risks.  
o The Department’s security team needs to be able to evaluate potential risks to 
Cloud resources. The security team therefore needs relevant privileges to gain the 
required visibility into Cloud resources by enabling the necessary permissions. The 
Department or its security team can use various methods to assign permissions to 
relevant users, user groups, and applications pertaining to a certain scope. The 
scope of a role may be a subscription, a resource group, or a single resource. 
o The appropriate permissions necessary for security teams to perform their 
operational responsibilities is the responsibility of the Department. This includes 
review of the built-in roles for roles assigned. Custom roles may also be created in 
cases where the built-in roles fail to meet the specific needs of the Department. In 
case data access controls are not enforced by the Departments, more than 
necessary privileges may be assigned to their end users. 
• 
Active Monitoring of suspicious activities 
o Identity monitoring systems are tasked with prompt detection of suspicious 
activity and consequently triggering alerts for further actions 
o As a practice, Departments should have a method of identifying brute force attacks, 
sign in attempts from multiple locations, suspicious IP addresses, sign in from 
infected systems to their cloud deployments.   
A comprehensive plan needs to be institutionalized by departments that clearly articulates the 
processes of managing user identities and authorizations of the Cloud services.

--- Página 31 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 31 of 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
❖ Department to adopt Identity-as-a-Service (IDaaS) for implementation of single 
sign-on 
❖ Department and CSP to restrict the use of root and generic accounts for Cloud 
Management and operations 
❖ Departments to Adopt a role-per-group model for access of systems 
❖ Department to ensure resource-level access controls to access Web, Application 
and cloud resources 
❖ Implementation of Multi-factor authentication and separate Cloud Accounts 
❖ Departments to govern the user details and their access levels, periodically. 
Important points to 
remember

--- Página 32 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 32 of 55 
 
5.1.6  Perimeter and Physical 
 
Perimeter defense is largely about controlling the network traffic coming in and out of a data 
centre network. Best practices include the implementation of a layered set of defenses working 
in tandem. Beyond a router, which connects the internal and external networks, the primary 
protection layer is the perimeter protection through a firewall, which filters out potentially 
dangerous or unknown traffic that may constitute a threat based on a set of rules about the 
types of traffic and permitted source/destination addresses on the network. Data centre 
providers also deploy intrusion detection or intrusion prevention systems (IDS/IPS), which 
look for suspicious traffic once it has passed through the firewall. 
The Cloud Service disruption can be caused by unwanted physical access of hardware. CSP 
should secure their data centre facilities and consider resiliency by implementing availability 
strategies. The threat increases where Cloud Service Provider has not implemented adequate 
secure or remote working environments from internal and external sources. 
Government Departments need to seek assurance from the selected CSPs that necessary 
security controls are in place. CSPs need to provide assurance by means of relevant audits and 
assessment reports. Additionally, they can also demonstrate compliance to security standards 
as included in Section 4.3 Standards applicable for Security. 
Ensuring perimeter security and physical security of the Data Centre, shall be the 
responsibility of the CSP, and in accordance with the norms laid down for empanelment for 
Cloud Service Providers by MeitY. Unauthorized personnel gaining access to the data centre 
shall result in a compromise and the CSPs are responsible to ensure sufficient measures such 
as security guards, secured fencing, security scanners, biometric access, CCTV surveillance, 
Access Logs etc. are available at the data centre to prevent unauthorized or forceful entry into 
Data Centre premises. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data 
Application 
Host/ 
Compute 
Network 
Identity & 
Access 
Physical 
Important Point to Remember: 
Empaneled 
Cloud 
Service 
Provider 
shall 
be 
responsible for maintaining security and sanctity of 
the physical data centre along with IT infrastructure 
(compute, network, storage, security) deployed for 
the cloud.

--- Página 33 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 33 of 55 
 
Some security controls around physical security of data centre to be ensured by the CSPs 
include: 
• 
Physical infrastructure shall be kept in secure areas – CSP needs to ensure physical and 
perimeter security are in place to prevent from unauthorized access. This includes having 
physical entry in controls that ensure access to only authorized personnel for areas 
containing sensitive infrastructure.  
• 
Protection against environmental threats – CSPs to ensure protection against 
environmental threats including floods, earthquakes, lightning, fire, natural disasters, 
civil unrest or other threats that could disrupt operations of a data centre. 
• 
Data Centre IT infrastructure security controls – CSP needs to ensure that necessary 
controls are in place to prevent damage, loss, compromise or theft of assets.  
• 
Safety against failure of equipment – CSP need to ensure that necessary controls are in 
place to execute preventive maintenance of all data centre equipment in order to avoid 
disruption of services due to detectable equipment failures. 
• 
Procedure for data centre asset removal/theft – CSP need to ensure that appropriate 
controls exist against removal or theft of sensitive assets. 
• 
Safe disposal or reuse of data centre equipment – CSP need to ensure that necessary 
control are in place for the suitable disposal of any data centre equipment, in particular 
any devices that might contain important data like storage media. 
• 
Security controls for DC personnel – Suitable controls need to be instituted for all 
employee working at the facilities of a CSP, including all temporary staff. 
• 
Ensuring Backup, Redundancy and Continuity Plans – CSP needs to provision appropriate 
mechanism to carry out regular backup of stored data, redundancy of equipment, as well 
as continuity plans for handling situations leading to equipment failure. 
On the other hand, Government Departments would need to ensure physical security of their 
endpoints from both physical and logical perspective to ensure a complete secured access and 
operation from the Cloud.

--- Página 34 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 34 of 55 
 
5.2    Cloud Security Assessment 
 
While institutionalizing practices around Cloud security, as mentioned in the section above, 
Government Departments may focus on performing a security assessment for their Cloud 
projects. There are certain critical questions which Departments must ask themselves as well 
as their Cloud Service Providers during each step of security assessment.  
This section explains an efficient method of evaluating security capabilities of the CSPs, and 
also evaluating their individual risks, by the Department. Following is a set of guiding 
questions for Government Departments ask and conduct assessment across each of the listed 
security domains. 
 
Security Step 
Guiding Questions for Security 
Assessment 
Ensuring 
Governance, Risk 
and Compliance 
processes exist 
• 
What 
information 
security 
regulations 
or 
standards are applicable to the Department’s 
domain?  
• 
Does the Department have any governance and 
compliance processes instituted for the use of cloud 
services? 
• 
Does the CSP have appropriate governance and 
incident notification processes for their services, 
consistent with the Department’s requirements? 
• 
Do the Master Services Agreement and Service 
Level Agreement clearly outline responsibilities 
between the provider and customer? 
• 
Are there any risks related to data location? 
Auditing and 
Reporting 
• 
Is a report by an independent audit agency 
available for covering the CSP’s cloud services? 
Does the audit information conform to one of the 
accepted standards for security audit such as ISO 
27001?

--- Página 35 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 35 of 55 
 
Security Step 
Guiding Questions for Security 
Assessment 
• 
Does the CSP have provisions to report to the 
customers about routine and exceptional behavior 
related to its offered services? Are all appropriate 
events and actions having security implications 
logged? 
• 
Do the security controls encompass not only the 
cloud 
services 
themselves, 
but 
also 
the 
management interfaces offered to customers? 
• 
Is there an Incident Reporting and Incident 
Handling process that meets the requirements of 
the customer? 
Managing People, 
Roles and Identities 
• 
Do the provider services offer fine grained access 
control? 
• 
Is multi-factor authentication supported for 
provider services? 
• 
 Can the provider give reports for monitoring user 
access?  
• 
Is it possible to integrate or federate customer 
identity management systems with the identity 
management facilities of the provider? 
Ensuring Data and 
Information 
Protection  
• 
Is there a catalog of all data that will be used or 
stored in the cloud environment? 
• 
Have 
roles 
and 
responsible 
of 
different 
stakeholders involved in data management been 
defined? 
• 
Has the handling of all forms of data been 
considered, in particular unstructured data such as 
images?

--- Página 36 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 36 of 55 
 
Security Step 
Guiding Questions for Security 
Assessment 
• 
For structured data held in databases in a multi-
tenant cloud environment, is there proper 
separation 
of 
data 
belonging 
to 
different 
customers? 
• 
Have appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability measures been applied to data used or 
stored in the cloud? 
Privacy Policies 
• 
Is PII going to be stored/processed by the cloud 
services? 
• 
Is the Department aware of data protection laws 
and regulations applicable? 
• 
Does the CSP's services have appropriate controls 
in place for handling PII? 
• 
Are responsibilities for handling PII stated in the 
cloud service agreement? 
• 
Are there appropriate data residency restrictions in 
the Cloud Service Agreement? 
• 
If there is a data breach, are responsibilities for 
reporting and resolving the breach clearly outlined, 
including priorities and timescales? 
Assessing security 
for cloud 
applications 
• 
Based on the cloud services model used, is it clear 
who has responsibility for the security of the 
applications (Department or CSP)? 
• 
If it is the Department, do they have policies and 
methodologies in place to ensure the appropriate 
security controls for each application?

--- Página 37 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 37 of 55 
 
Security Step 
Guiding Questions for Security 
Assessment 
• 
If it is the CSP, does the cloud service agreement 
make the responsibilities clear and require specific 
security controls to be applied to the application?  
• 
In either case, does the application make use of 
appropriate encryption techniques to protect the 
data and the user’s transactions? 
Ensuring Cloud 
Network security 
• 
Is network traffic screening possible? 
• 
Does the CSP have the provisions to deal with 
distributed denial of service attacks? 
• 
Does the CSP's network have intrusion detection & 
prevention? 
• 
Does the CSP have the provisioning for logging the 
network and providing notification? 
• 
Is separation of network traffic possible in a shared 
multi-tenant provider environment? 
Ensuring controls 
for physical 
infrastructure 
security  
• 
Can the CSP demonstrate appropriate security 
controls applied to their physical infrastructure 
and facilities? 
• 
Does the service provider have facilities in place to 
ensure continuity of service in the face of 
environmental threats or equipment failures? 
• 
Does the CSP have necessary security controls for 
their personnel? 
Managing security 
terms in cloud 
service agreements 
• 
Does the cloud service agreement specify security 
responsibilities of the CSP and of the Department?

--- Página 38 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 38 of 55 
 
Security Step 
Guiding Questions for Security 
Assessment 
• 
Does the service agreement have metrics for 
measuring performance and effectiveness of 
security management? 
• 
Does the service agreement explicitly document 
procedures for notification and handling of 
security incidents? 
Understanding 
security 
requirement in exit 
process  
• 
Is there a documented exit process as part of the 
cloud service agreement? 
• 
Is it clear that all cloud service customer data is 
deleted from the provider's environment at the end 
of the exit process? 
• 
Is cloud service customer data protected against 
loss or breach during the exit process?

--- Página 39 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 39 of 55 
 
5.3    Next Generation Model in Cloud Security – Zero Trust 
The term ‘zero trust’ was coined by a Forrester Research Inc. analyst in 2010 when the 
concept’s model was first presented. A few years later, Google implemented zero trust security 
in their network, that led to a growing interest in adoption within the tech community. 
 Zero trust security is a next generation IT security 
model that requires stringent verification of identity 
for each device and person trying to access resources 
on a private network, regardless of their position 
within or outside of the network perimeter. There is 
no specific technology that is associated with zero 
trust; it is rather a holistic and comprehensive 
approach to network security that encompasses 
several different technologies and principles. 
Traditional IT network security is based on the 
castle-and-moat 
concept. 
In 
castle-and-moat 
security, obtaining access from outside the network 
is difficult, but there is by default trust for everyone 
inside the network. The limitations with this 
approach are that when an attacker gains access to 
the network, they have a free rule over everything 
that is available inside. This limitation and 
vulnerability in castle-and-moat security systems is 
worsened 
by 
the 
fact 
that 
Organizations/Departments do not have their data 
in just one place. In the present day, information is 
often spread across cloud service providers, making 
it even more difficult to have a single security control 
for an entire network. 
Zero trust security means that by default, not everyone is trusted from inside or outside the 
network, and verification is mandatory for everyone trying to access the resources on the 
network. This additional layer of security has been introduced to prevent data breaches. 
 
 
Departments may adopt a 
zero trust 
microsegmentation 
strategy that allows traffic 
to flow between approved 
systems and connections, 
regardless of the 
environment they are in.

--- Página 40 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 40 of 55 
 
5.3.1 Principles of Zero Trust Model 
With Zero Trust all users are presumed to be untrustworthy. The primary concept behind a 
zero-trust network assumes that there exist potential attackers both inside and outside the 
network, so no machines or users should be trusted automatically. According to Forrester 
Research, the principles of Zero Trust Model are as follows: 
• 
Ensure only legitimate traffic or application communication is allowed by segmenting 
and enabling Layer 7 policy. 
• 
Leverage a least-privileged access strategy and strictly enforce access control. This 
means users should only be given access as per the need and the requirement, on a 
need-to-know basis. This minimizes user exposure to sensitive parts of the network. 
• 
Inspect and log all cloud traffic. Otherwise, it may be considered simple for an attacker 
to access a Department’s network 
• 
Zero trust networks utilize the concept of microsegmentation. Microsegmentation is 
the practice of breaking up security perimeters into small zones and maintain separate 
access for separate parts of the network. Example, a network with files residing in one 
data centre that adopts microsegmentation may consist dozens of separate and secure 
zones. A program or person with access to any one of these zones shall not have access 
to any of the other zones without separate and unique authorization. 
 
• 
Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is also at the core of the zero-trust model. MFA 
simply needs more than a single piece of evidence for user authentication; simply 
entering a password is not enough to access. In addition to password entry, cloud 
services users are required to enter a code sent to another device, such as a mobile 
phone, thus enabling a two-factor authentication. 
 
• 
In addition to user access control, zero trust also needs strict controls on device access. 
Zero trust systems need to monitor the number of distinct devices that are trying to 
access their network and ensure that every such device is authorized. This minimizes 
the attack surface of the network further. 
Implementing zero trust security through cloud-based architecture is more cost-effective and 
flexible for organizations of any size or type. Without the associated upkeep of on-prem 
hardware, IT teams can enjoy increased security without sacrificing ease of use.

--- Página 41 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 41 of 55 
 
 
 
 
❖ Begin with passive application discovery by closely monitoring the 
network. Allow for discovery of the relationships in place along with 
coordination with relevant stakeholders who understand what normal 
traffic patterns and intersystem communications look like. Once the 
appropriation of relationships along with application behavior are 
confirmed accordingly the enforcement policies should be enacted. 
❖ Design a zero-trust architecture based on data movement across the 
network and the ways in which users and applications access sensitive 
information. This will assist in determining how the network should be 
segmented. It may also assist security teams in identifying positioning of 
access controls between the borders of different network segments. 
❖ Implement monitoring and real-time audit to track all privileged sessions 
and metadata, auditing everything across all systems to paint a 
comprehensive picture of intentions and outcomes. 
Important points to 
remember

--- Página 42 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 42 of 55 
 
5.4    Standards applicable for Security 
 
To facilitate the planning on information security management for the Government 
Departments, there is comprehensive list of NIST Controls referred from published document 
“Indian Governmental Cloud Selection Framework” on MeitY Portal. 
There are certain internationally recognized information security standards highlighted below 
which department can follow while adoption of cloud platform: 
 
 
5.4.1 ISO/ IEC 27000 Family of Information Security Management System 
ISO 27001 
This standard provides best practice to an Information Security Management System (ISMS). 
This Management System Standard is designed to manage an organizations sensitive data 
along with its set policies and procedures. Absence of ISMS makes the organization vulnerable 
to cyber-attacks and data leaks. Therefore, this system is a critical component within an 
organization. 
ISO 27002 
ISO 27002 Standard is all about the guidelines for organizational Information Security 
Management System (ISMS) practices including the selection, implementation and 
ISO 27K 
Family 
PCI-DSS 
SSAE 16/ SOC 
2 
ISO 27001 
ISO 27002 
ISO 27017 
Policies and 
Standards 
ISO 27018 
Figure 3: Standards in Information and Cloud Security

--- Página 43 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 43 of 55 
 
management of controls taking into considerations the organization Information Security 
Risk environment. 
ISO 27017 
ISO 270017 is designed to assist in implementation of controls for cloud-based organizations. 
This standard is relevant to organizations who store information in the cloud, but also for 
organizations who provide cloud-based services to other organizations who may have 
sensitive information. 
ISO 27018 
ISO 27018 is for cloud computing organization, specifically designed to protect Personally 
Identifiable Information (PII) stored and/or processed in the cloud. The primary focus of this 
standard is relevant to cloud providers and not cloud consumers. This standard gives 
additional level of confidence to consumers, specifically when working with organizations who 
handle sensitive information. 
5.4.2 PCI DSS 
Cloud security is the shared responsibility between the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) and its 
users / clients. If card payment data is stored, transmitted or processed in a cloud 
environment, PCI DSS will apply to that environment, and will typically involve validation of 
both the CSP’s infrastructure and the client’s usage of that environment. The allocation of 
responsibility between client and provider for managing security controls does not exempt a 
client from the responsibility of ensuring that their cardholder data is properly secured 
according to applicable PCI DSS requirements. Payment Card Industry Data Security 
Standard (PCI DSS) comprises of a set of logical, procedural and physical security 
requirements for organizations that process credit and debit card transactions, as well as 
payment applications. All organizations that store, process or transmit cardholder 
information, need to comply with this standard.  
5.4.3 Sector specific standards 
SSAE 16/ SOC 2 
Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements No. 16. SSAE 16 requires Data Centre 
organizations, to provide written report that describes controls at organizations that provide 
services to customers.  
SOC 2 is a report which focuses on controls at service provider relevant to security, processing 
integrity, availability, confidentiality and privacy of a system. It ensures customers that their 
data is kept private and secure while in storage and in transit and which is available for the 
customer to access at any time.

--- Página 44 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 44 of 55 
 
5.5   Cloud Security in a Multi-cloud/ Hybrid Cloud environment 
Securing a hybrid IT environment that is operating from across multiple Clouds is an uphill 
task. Government Departments intending to function from a mix of on-premise and Cloud 
systems would believe that the hybrid model is more secure than the exclusive in-house 
systems. Hence, improved security would act as an important factor to increase their usage of 
the hybrid or multi-cloud services. Until recently, many CSPs didn’t have the necessary 
controls or guarantees of compliance and security that the Government Departments would 
expect, but that setup has changed radically. 
Multicloud refers to the use of multiple Cloud and storage services within a single 
heterogeneous architecture. This heterogeneous environment also refers to the distribution of 
Cloud assets, software, applications, etc. across several cloud-hosting environments. With a 
typical multicloud architecture, using two or more public Clouds, or multiple private clouds, 
this multicloud environment intends to eliminate the dependency on any single CSP. 
Protecting the Cloud infrastructure is mandatory for the selected CSP, but it is the 
Government Department’s responsibility to secure any data that it puts into the Cloud. 
Therefore, ultimately the Government Department needs to carry out the necessary due 
diligence while selecting the CSPs/MSPs in order to ascertain that they meet the applicable  
regulatory and security requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
Pertaining to the department’s responsibility to safeguard its data, the importance in a multi-
cloud environment shifts from securing the perimeter of the network, to securing the data - 
whether at rest or in transit. In a multi-cloud environment, the focus is to comprehensively 
understand data flows and protect it in accordance to its degree of sensitivity. 
Certain measures which may be kept in mind while considering a multi-cloud deployment/ 
environment are as follows: 
• 
Department’s central strategy towards security 
To identify threats across a hybrid multiple Cloud platform, and effectively integrate 
security strategies to address needs of each of the Cloud platforms, department’s internal 
security teams or MSPs would need to centralize the security control in order to maximize 
The emphasis in a multi-cloud environment shifts from 
securing the perimeter of the network to securing data 
everywhere it is, at rest or in transit

--- Página 45 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 45 of 55 
 
data visibility. Information about all security measures and tools implemented is needed 
to be shared across the identified points of contacts that are responsible for each Cloud 
platform, to advance the department’s security capabilities. Having a uniform protocol for 
security enforcement helps ensure a consistent approach to Cloud platforms, thereby 
facilitating a secure integration within a multi-cloud architecture. Using third-party 
services for automation can help in scaling Cloud security. 
• 
Evolve an approach for security of a hybrid multi-cloud environment 
While the Departments need to ensure that their applications are up to date, it is also 
imperative to ensure that their security functions are constantly upgraded to meet their 
evolving IT landscape and its security requirements. In today’s world, Cyber-attackers are 
continuously searching for vulnerabilities to exploit and adopting innovative ways to 
breach security. Monitoring threats to a multi-cloud architecture is a continuous process 
that requires security experts to constantly analyze the security of the multi-cloud through 
real-time reports. 
• 
Secure communications that run the application 
Even though the communications between applications in a multi-cloud environment and 
within the applications themselves are secure, many Departments may neglect to protect 
the communications that are designed to control how the applications function. This is 
known as the control plane, and a good multi-cloud security strategy should take into 
account the necessity to encrypt communications that come within the domain of the 
control plane. Department’s security teams need to ensure encryption of these 
communications 
that 
control 
container 
and 
virtual 
machines. 
Often, 
these 
communications are left unencrypted and unsecured, thereby allowing the possibility of 
exploitation of these weak areas by malicious entities. 
• 
Ensure that Departmental employee’s follow security protocol 
One of the biggest security breaches would comprise of situations where certain end users 
would have access to unauthorized data and services. When unrelated people are allowed 
access to unauthorized or sensitive data, they are at risk of exposing the data to security 
breaches and even cyberattacks. In such cases, Departments need to confirm that any 
acquired software is patched and secured before rolling it out to its employees. Employees 
also need to be trained to adhere to the stringent security protocols that are designed to 
prevent the occurrence of a security breach. 
In order to maintain security controls throughout the Department’s hybrid or multicloud 
deployments, Cloud Access Security Brokers (CASBs) may also be utilised. 
CASBs (or Cloud Security Gateways) discover internal use of cloud services using various 
mechanisms such as network monitoring, integrating with an existing network gateway or 
monitoring tool, or even by monitoring DNS queries. After discovering the services that users are

--- Página 46 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 46 of 55 
 
connecting to, most of these products then offer monitoring of user activity on approved services, 
majorly through API connections (whenever available) or inline interception (man in the middle 
monitoring). Many support security alerting, including DLP and also offer controls to effectively 
manage use of sensitive data in Cloud services (SaaS/PaaS/and IaaS). 
Regardless of where the application is deployed, security policies need to be maintained as per the 
policy definitions. This can be achieved by utilizing a centralized policy management solution 
which spans across different Clouds and data centre facilities. This solution needs to have the 
capability to uniformly enforce, monitor and manage the policies. 
Infrastructure and application logs from the multiple CSP environments interacting to provide 
services, should be gathered at a central location to facilitate centralized security monitoring, 
incident management and event analysis. This will enable a single view of emerging threats across 
the organizations’ data assets. This solution shall be based on Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Machine 
Learning (ML),with capabilities of User and Entity Behavior Analysis (UEBA). This would help in 
reducing the efforts and time taken to detect anomalies, which in turn reduces the incident 
contentment time and thus a reduced cost of data breach. 
 
All end users should go through a centralized identity access management solution (IDAM 
solution). . This solution is capable of accommodating multiple user identities and managing 
Figure 4: Cloud Security in a Multi-Cloud Environment

--- Página 47 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 47 of 55 
 
different user types, facilitating a single sign-on mechanism and integrating or having the feature 
to enable multi-factor authentication. 
A centralized data backup solution ensures that data from all the different environments would 
be made available, even during a disaster, when this information is needed the most. 
Security infrastructure needs to be managed using a centralized analytics and monitoring solution 
across various environments. This tool may also be used for IT infra orchestration that 
encompasses security tools and technologies. The encryption keys and certificates can be 
managed from a central HSM or a key management solution. 
Lastly, automated workflows and playbooks will facilitate in empowering the Security Operation 
Centre (SOC) through automation tools. For instance, having an automated workflow for approval 
of change requests. 
Hence by ensuring certain practices a secure adoption of a multi-cloud deployment may be 
undertaken by the Departments to leverage benefits of multiple offerings of various CSPs 
empaneled by MeitY.

--- Página 48 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 48 of 55 
 
6. Cloud Security Governance 
In addition to deciding whether to move applications into the cloud, Departments must also 
ensure their cloud computing efforts are fully integrated into their entire information security 
program. This means understanding the process as it fits into the ICT Resilience Lifecycle, 
which takes into account the prevention aspects, including risk management and 
information security, and the reaction elements, involving incident management and 
continuity planning, but also the overall governance process. 
• 
Governance: As Departments decide to deploy applications in cloud environments, 
they must consider their overall IT security governance procedures accordingly. That 
process should begin with the establishment of an overall vision of how the cloud fits 
not only into the necessary information security procedures, but also with the goals 
and objectives of those procedures and a road map for establishing them.  
• 
Risk management: Cloud security requirements must be aligned with overall 
Department-level understanding of risk levels and an internal classification of data.  
• 
Incident management: As applications are deployed in the cloud, Department’s every 
Cloud Service Provider must be integrated into the Department’s overall centralized 
incident response procedures.  
• 
Continuity planning: Business continuity plans must take into account assets moved 
into the cloud, and be regularly updated and tested to account for new cloud 
architecture and provider models.

--- Página 49 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 49 of 55 
 
As part of this effort, security practitioners must define the scope and boundaries of all security 
functions that may be relevant to cloud environments, and develop an approach to improving and 
monitoring the performance of all of the cloud’s stakeholders, including service providers, users, 
and technical staff. Finally, they should provide top management with the tools needed to gain 
visibility into cloud security — such as a security-level dashboard — and the levers needed to 
manage the overall cloud computing program.  
 
Figure 5: ICT Resilience Lifecycle

--- Página 50 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 50 of 55 
 
7. Cloud Security as a shared responsibility model 
One of the most crucial questions while evaluating cloud is “Who is responsible for security in 
the cloud, the Cloud Consumer or the Cloud Service Provider?” The answer is both.  
Cloud Computing follows the shared responsibility model to ensure adequate security 
measures. Securing physical infrastructure and the virtualization platform itself will 
permanently be the responsibility of the Cloud Service Provider. Meanwhile, the Cloud 
consumer i.e. the Government Department in this case, is responsible for framing and 
institutionalizing proper security controls, while understanding the underlying risks. For 
instance, deciding when to encrypt virtualized storage, properly configuring the virtual 
network and firewalls, or deciding when to use dedicated hosting vs. a shared host. 
In continuation to the practices around cloud security, certain additional pointers which 
Government Department should timely monitor with respect to their cloud deployments are 
as follows: 
• 
Upgrade operating system and the installed software with the latest patches. 
• 
Ensure that the MSP / CSP solution satisfies organizational security, privacy and 
legislative requirements. MeitY through its empanelment RFP has onboarded CSPs 
which meet certain specific technical and legal requirements. Kindly refer to 
https://meity.gov.in/content/gi-cloud-meghraj for the list of requirements that need 
to be met by CSPs to get empaneled by MeitY. Additional requirements if any, may be 
evaluated by the Department as per their project requirements. 
• 
Use designated computers with MFA, strong password policies, access-controlled 
privileges, and encrypted communication channel to administer the cloud service. 
• 
Avoid providing the MSP/CSP with account credentials and / or access to sensitive 
systems outside of their responsibility. 
• 
Use controls to protect data in transit between the Department’s end and the Cloud 
Service Provider. 
• 
Consider full data encryption of critical Department information while at rest, while 
maintaining control of encryption keys. 
• 
Consider regular scanning and monitoring for non-standard or suspicious 
code/files/folders on hosts, and ensure regular audits, even if periodic scanning and 
audits are a service provided under contract with the MSP/CSP.

--- Página 51 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 51 of 55 
 
• 
Perform periodic cloud audit activity (every 6 months) for ensuring conformance to 
compliance by the CSP as per Department’s project requirement. 
• 
Employ the use of anti-malware and other security tools on Department assets and/or 
infrastructure. Consider tools which can both detect and remediate infections. Anti-
malware programs and other security tools should be maintained and kept updated, 
and all executables downloaded to Departments’ infrastructure should be scanned 
before execution. 
• 
Ensure that MSP/CSPs conduct regular reviews of network and system logs for any 
suspicious activity or traffic which may indicate potential compromise. 
• 
Employ a data backup and recovery plan for all critical information. Ensure that 
MSP/CSP also employs data backups and recovery plans.  Perform and test regular 
backups to limit the impact of data or system loss and to expedite the recovery process. 
Since network storage can also be affected, this data should be kept on a separate 
device, and backups should be stored offline. 
• 
Contractually retain the ability to receive a copy of a compromised virtual server for 
Department’s internal forensic analysis. 
Both, the CSP and the Cloud consumer have distinct responsibilities to ensure security in the 
Cloud environment, however, in a few areas the responsibility overlaps. In today’s scenario, many 
security problems among cloud consumers involve misunderstanding these shared responsibility 
areas. 
Further, it would be safe to say that there are more areas of cloud security for which the cloud 
consumer is responsible, rather than the provider. Government Departments who understand the 
basic delineation of responsibility will be a much better position to maintain a high level of cloud 
security. 
Essentially, the CSP requires to ensure that the infrastructure built within their platform, is 
inherently robust and secure. On the other side, certain customizable Cloud capabilities including 
network configuration, account access, application management, compute configuration, and 
data encryption are the responsibility areas of the Cloud consumer. This shared security model—
illustrated below—may be referred to for better understanding the responsibilities between CSP 
and the Government Departments while configuring cloud security for their infrastructure.

--- Página 52 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 52 of 55 
 
            
 
 
 
Figure 6: Shared Responsibility Model in Cloud

--- Página 53 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 53 of 55 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Shared Responsibility Model in Cloud (including MSP)

--- Página 54 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 54 of 55 
 
Cloud security denotes the efforts towards securing data, infrastructure and applications that are 
inherent to the use of Cloud computing – this includes technologies, organizational policies and 
controls. 
In order to improve agility and reduce costs for the Government Departments, Cloud-based 
applications and their data, are becoming distributed. This trend is true for private clouds, public 
clouds (hybrid or dedicated), as well as Software as a Service (SaaS) applications. 
The increasing concern over data exposure has made cloud security a priority. The challenge 
therefore is to balance the Department’s need for agility while at the same time, improving 
security of applications and their data, as it travels among multiple Cloud platforms. It therefore 
becomes imperative to gain the necessary visibility across all locations that reside applications 
and data, to prevent attacks that are aimed at exfiltrating data, both through a lateral attack or 
from an external location. 
Multiple teams may be responsible for different areas of Cloud security: application team, 
network team, security team, compliance team, or the IT infrastructure team. Nevertheless, Cloud 
security is a shared responsibility between the CSP and the Government Department. 
In case of an on-premise setup, the Departments themselves are responsible for all security 
aspects of the Cloud, as it is hosted locally in their own data centres. This covers all areas includes 
the infrastructure, physical network, hypervisor, operating systems, virtual network, service 
configuration, firewalls, identity and access management, etc. In this scenario, the Departments 
own the data and also its security. 
For an IaaS offering in any Cloud deployment model, the CSP owns the infrastructure, hypervisor 
and physical network. The Departments, on the other hand, own the workload, its applications, 
virtual network, access to the Cloud environment, and the deployed data. 
For a SaaS setup, CSPs are mostly responsible for the security of their own platform, including 
physical security, infrastructure security and application security. The CSPs cannot own their 
customer’s data, nor assume any responsibility for how the applications are used. Primarily, the 
Department needs to look after security to prevent and minimize the risk of malicious data 
exfiltration, accidental exposure, or malware insertion. In this case, the complete responsibility 
of application security lies with the CSP, and the Departments are responsible for necessary 
environmental configurations and data on Cloud. 
One of the key factors that should be considered while assessing Cloud versus an on-premise 
environment, is the responsibility of CSPs to ensure and adhere to the latest regulatory 
compliances and certifications, along with having the certification renewed periodically. Such 
governance measures may be a cost centre for the Departments in an On-premise setup whereas 
in cloud the CSP would be responsible for ensuring compliances to the norms needed by the 
Government Departments.

--- Página 55 ---
Guidelines/ Best Practices for User Departments on Cloud Security 
 
Page 55 of 55 
 
A detailed model describing the shared responsibility between the Government Departments and 
the CSP has been illustrated in Figure 6 above. 
In case the Department selects a Managed Service Provider (MSP) to manage their Cloud 
workload, Figure 7 can be referred which discusses the responsibilities between the Government 
Department, CSP and the MSP in detail. 
As Government Departments transition from an on-premise setup to either IaaS, PaaS or SaaS 
service, the responsibility for security of data, applications and infrastructure is the larger 
responsibility of the selected CSP than the Department itself. However, irrespective of the 
platform used, the Department will always be accountable to ensure security of its own data. To 
safely enable their applications, the Government Departments must be confident that their CSPs 
have put in place the appropriate security measures.  
To compensate for what does not fall under the CSP’s purview, a Department must also have the 
necessary tools in place in order to asses, manage and secure the risks effectively and facilitate 
data security. For a SaaS offering, these tools may be able to provide visibility into activities within 
the SaaS application, detailed analytics on the service usage to prevent risk to data and violations 
of compliance requirements, policy controls to necessitate enforcement and even quarantine in 
case a violation occurs, real-time threat intelligence on known and to also detect unknown threats 
to prevent new malware insertion points. 
To offer a secure cloud, the CSP manages and controls multiple layers – the host Operating System 
(OS), the virtualization layer, as well as the physical security of its data centre facilities. To 
ascertain security within a given Cloud environment, the Department or it’s MSP is expected to 
configure and manage the security controls for the guest OS, and other applications (including 
updates and security patches), and for the firewall as well. Hence, it is imperative for both CSPs 
and Government Departments to understand their roles and responsibilities with respect to 
security while choosing cloud for their deployments.

