=== CYBERSECURITY BASICS.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
CYBERSECURITY BASICS
Cyber criminals target
companies of all sizes.
Knowing some cybersecurity basics and 
putting them in practice will help you 
protect your business and reduce the risk 
of a cyber attack.
PROTECT
YOUR FILES & DEVICES
Update your software
This includes your apps, web 
browsers, and operating 
systems. Set updates to 
happen automatically.
Secure your files
Back up important files offline, 
on an external hard drive, or in 
the cloud. Make sure you store 
your paper files securely, too.
Require passwords
Use passwords for all laptops, 
tablets, and smartphones.
Don’t leave these devices 
unattended in public places.
Encrypt devices
Encrypt devices and other media that 
contain sensitive personal information. 
This includes laptops, tablets, 
smartphones, removable drives, backup 
tapes, and cloud storage solutions.
Use multi-factor authentication
Require multi-factor authentication to access areas 
of your network with sensitive information. This 
requires additional steps beyond logging in with a 
password — like a temporary code on a smartphone 
or a key that’s inserted into a computer. 
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 2 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
PROTECT YOUR WIRELESS NETWORK
Secure your router
Change the default name and password, turn off remote management, 
and log out as the administrator once the router is set up.
Use at least WPA2 encryption
Make sure your router offers WPA2 or WPA3 encryption, and that it’s 
turned on. Encryption protects information sent over your network so it 
can’t be read by outsiders.
MAKE
YOUR BUSINESS AS USUAL
SMART SECURITY
Require strong passwords
A strong password is at least 
12 characters that are a mix of 
numbers, symbols, and capital 
lowercase letters.
Never reuse passwords and 
don’t share them on the phone, 
in texts, or by email. 
Limit the number of 
unsuccessful log-in attempts to 
limit password-guessing attacks.
Train all staff
Create a culture of security 
by implementing a regular 
schedule of employee training. 
Update employees as you 
find out about new risks and 
vulnerabilities. If employees 
don’t attend, consider blocking 
their access to the network.
Have a plan
Have a plan for saving data, 
running the business, and 
notifying customers if you 
experience a breach. The FTC’s 
Data Breach Response: A Guide 
for Business gives steps you 
can take. You can find it at 
FTC.gov/DataBreach.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 3 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
Understanding
THE NIST CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK
You may have heard about the 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework, 
but what exactly is it?
And does it apply to you? 
NIST is the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology at the U.S. Department of Commerce. 
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework helps 
businesses of all sizes better understand, 
manage, and reduce their cybersecurity risk 
and protect their networks and data. The 
Framework is voluntary. It gives your business 
an outline of best practices to help you decide 
where to focus your time and money for 
cybersecurity protection.
You can put the NIST Cybersecurity Framework 
to work in your business in these five areas: 
Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. 
1. IDENTIFY
Make a list of all equipment, software, and data 
you use, including laptops, smartphones, tablets, 
and point-of-sale devices.
Create and share a company cybersecurity 
policy that covers:
2. PROTECT
•	Control who logs on to your network and uses 
your computers and other devices.
• 	Use security software to protect data.
•	Encrypt sensitive data, at rest and in transit.
•	Conduct regular backups of data.
•	Update security software regularly, automating 
those updates if possible.
•	Have formal policies for safely disposing of 
electronic files and old devices.
• 	Train everyone who uses your computers, 
devices, and network about cybersecurity. 
You can help employees understand their 
personal risk in addition to their crucial role 
in the workplace.
Roles and responsibilities 
for employees, vendors, and 
anyone else with access to 
sensitive data.
Steps to take to protect against 
an attack and limit the damage if 
one occurs.

--- Página 4 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
3. DETECT
Monitor your computers 
for unauthorized personnel 
access, devices (like USB 
drives), and software.
Check your network 
for unauthorized 
users or connections.
Investigate any unusual 
activities on your network 
or by your staff.
4. RESPOND
Have a plan for:
•	Notifying customers, employees, and others 
whose data may be at risk.
•	Keeping business operations up and running.
• 	Reporting the attack to law enforcement and 
other authorities.
• 	Investigating and containing an attack. 
• 	Updating your cybersecurity policy and 
plan with lessons learned.
• 	Preparing for inadvertent events 
(like weather emergencies) that may 
put data at risk.
Test your plan regularly.
5. RECOVER
After an attack:
Repair and restore the 
equipment and parts of your 
network that were affected.
Keep employees and customers 
informed of your response and 
recovery activities.
For more information on the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and resources for small businesses, 
go to NIST.gov/CyberFramework and NIST.gov/Programs-Projects/Small-Business-Corner-SBC.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 5 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
PHYSICAL SECURITY
Cybersecurity begins with 
strong physical security. 
Lapses in physical security can expose 
sensitive company data to identity theft, 
with potentially serious consequences. 
For example:
An employee accidentally leaves a flash drive 
on a coffeehouse table. When he returns hours 
later to get it, the drive — with hundreds of Social 
Security numbers saved on it — is gone. 
Another employee throws stacks of old company 
bank records into a trash can, where a criminal 
finds them after business hours. 
A burglar steals files and computers from your 
office after entering through an unlocked window.
HOW TO PROTECT EQUIPMENT & PAPER FILES
Here are some tips for protecting information in paper files and on hard drives, 
flash drives, laptops, point-of-sale devices, and other equipment. 
Store securely
When paper files or 
electronic devices 
contain sensitive 
information, store 
them in a locked 
cabinet or room.
Limit physical
access
When records or 
devices contain 
sensitive data, 
allow access only to 
those who need it. 
Send reminders
Remind employees to 
put paper files in locked 
file cabinets, log out 
of your network and 
applications, and never 
leave files or devices 
with sensitive data 
unattended. 
Keep stock
Keep track of and 
secure any devices 
that collect sensitive 
customer information. 
Only keep files and 
data you need and 
know who has access 
to them.

--- Página 6 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO PROTECT DATA ON YOUR DEVICES
A burglary, lost laptop, stolen mobile phone, or misplaced flash drive — all can happen due to 
lapses in physical security. But they’re less likely to result in a data breach if information on those 
devices is protected. Here are a few ways to do that:
Require complex passwords
Require passwords that are long, complex, and unique. And make sure that these 
passwords are stored securely. Consider using a password manager.
Use multi-factor authentication
Require multi-factor authentication to access areas of your network with sensitive 
information. This requires additional steps beyond logging in with a password — like 
a temporary code on a smartphone or a key that’s inserted into a computer. 
Limit login attempts
Limit the number of incorrect login attempts allowed to unlock devices. This will help 
protect against intruders. 
Encrypt
Encrypt portable media, including laptops and thumb drives, that contain sensitive 
information. Encrypt any sensitive data you send outside of the company, like to an 
accountant or a shipping service. 
YOUR 
EMPLOYEES
TRAIN
Include physical security in your regular employee trainings and 
communications. Remind employees to:
Shred documents
Always shred documents 
with sensitive information 
before throwing them away.
Erase data correctly
Use software to erase data 
before donating or discarding 
old computers, mobile devices, 
digital copiers, and drives. 
Don’t rely on “delete” alone. 
That does not actually remove 
the file from the computer. 
Promote security practices 
in all locations
Maintain security practices even if working 
remotely from home or on business travel.
Know the response plan
All staff should know what to do if 
equipment or paper files are lost or 
stolen, including whom to notify and 
what to do next. Use Data Breach 
Response: A Guide for Business for help 
creating a response plan. You can find it 
at FTC.gov/DataBreach.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 7 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
RANSOMWARE
Someone in your company 
gets an email.
It looks legitimate — but with one click on 
a link, or one download of an attachment, 
everyone is locked out of your network. That 
link downloaded software that holds your data 
hostage. That’s a ransomware attack.
The attackers ask for money or cryptocurrency, 
but even if you pay, you don’t know if the 
cybercriminals will keep your data or destroy 
your files. Meanwhile, the information you 
need to run your business and sensitive 
details about your customers, employees, 
and company are now in criminal hands. 
Ransomware can take a serious toll on your 
business.
HOW IT
HAPPENS
Criminals can start a ransomware
attack in a variety of ways.
Scam emails 
with links and attachments that 
put your data and network at risk. 
These phishing emails make up 
most ransomware attacks.
Server
vulnerabilities
which can be exploited 
by hackers.
Infected websites 
that automatically download 
malicious software onto 
your computer.
Online ads 
that contain malicious code 
— even on websites you 
know and trust.

--- Página 8 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO PROTECT YOUR BUSINESS
Have a plan 
How would your business stay up and running after a ransomware attack? 
Put this plan in writing and share it with everyone who needs to know.
Back up your data 
Regularly save important files to a drive or server that’s not connected to your network. 
Make data backup part of your routine business operations.
Keep your security up to date 
Always install the latest patches and updates. Look for additional means of protection, 
like email authentication, and intrusion prevention software, and set them to update 
automatically on your computer. On mobile devices, you may have to do it manually.
Alert your staff 
Teach them how to avoid phishing scams and show them some of the common ways 
computers and devices become infected. Include tips for spotting and protecting against 
ransomware in your regular orientation and training.
WHAT TO 
DO IF YOU’RE
ATTACKED
Limit the damage
Immediately disconnect 
the infected computers or 
devices from your network. 
If your data has been stolen, 
take steps to protect your 
company and notify those 
who might be affected.
Contact the authorities
Report the attack right away 
to your local FBI office.
Keep your business running 
Now’s the time to implement that plan. 
Having data backed up will help.
Should I pay the ransom?
Law enforcement doesn’t recommend 
that, but it’s up to you to determine 
whether the risks and costs of paying 
are worth the possibility of getting 
your files back. However, paying the 
ransom may not guarantee you get 
your data back.
Notify customers 
If your data or personal information was compromised, make sure you 
notify the affected parties ― they could be at risk of identity theft. Find 
information on how to do that at Data Breach Response: A Guide for 
Business. You can find it at FTC.gov/DataBreach.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 9 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
PHISHING
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
You get an email that looks like it’s from someone you know.
It seems to be from one of your company’s vendors and asks that you click on a link to update your 
business account. Should you click? Maybe it looks like it’s from your boss and asks for your network 
password. Should you reply? In either case, probably not. These may be phishing attempts.
HOW
WHAT YOU CAN DO
PHISHING WORKS
You get an email or text
It seems to be from someone you know, 
and it asks you to click a link, or give your 
password, business bank account, or other 
sensitive information.
Before you click on a link or share any 
of your sensitive business information:
It looks real
It’s easy to spoof logos and make up fake email 
addresses. Scammers use familiar company 
names or pretend to be someone you know.
Check it out
Look up the website or phone number for 
the company or person behind the text or 
email. Make sure that you’re getting the 
real company and not about to download 
malware or talk to a scammer.
Talk to someone
Talking to a colleague might help you figure 
It’s urgent
The message pressures you to act now — 
or something bad will happen.
What happens next
If you click on a link, scammers can install 
ransomware or other programs that can 
lock you out of your data and spread to 
the entire company network. If you share 
passwords, scammers now have access to 
all those accounts.
out if the request is real or a phishing attempt.
Make a call if you’re not sure
Pick up the phone and call that vendor, 
colleague, or client who sent the email. 
Confirm that they really need information 
from you. Use a number you know to be 
correct, not the number in the email or text.

--- Página 10 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO
YOUR BUSINESS
PROTECT
Back up your data
Regularly back up your data and 
make sure those backups are not 
connected to the network. That 
way, if a phishing attack happens 
and hackers get to your network, 
you can restore your data. Make 
data backup part of your routine 
business operations.
Keep your security
up to date
Always install the latest patches 
and updates. Look for additional 
means of protection, like email 
authentication and intrusion 
prevention software, and set them 
to update automatically on your 
computers. On mobile devices, 
you may have to do it manually.
Alert your staff
Share with them this information. 
Keep in mind that phishing 
scammers change their tactics 
often, so make sure you include 
tips for spotting the latest phishing 
schemes in your regular training.
Deploy a safety net
Use email authentication 
technology to help prevent 
phishing emails from reaching 
your company’s inboxes in the 
first place.
WHAT IF YOU FALL FOR A 
PHISHING SCHEME
Alert others
Talk to your colleagues and share your 
experience. Phishing attacks often happen to 
more than one person in a company.
Limit the damage
Immediately change any compromised 
passwords and disconnect from the network any 
computer or device that’s infected with malware.
Follow your company’s procedures
These may include notifying specific people 
in your organization or contractors that help 
you with IT.
Notify customers
If your data or personal information was 
compromised, make sure you notify the 
affected parties — they could be at risk of 
identity theft. Find information on how to do that 
at Data Breach Response: A Guide for Business 
(FTC.gov/DataBreach).
Report it
Forward phishing emails to spam@uce.
gov (an address used by the FTC) and to 
reportphishing@apwg.org (an address used 
by the Anti-Phishing Working Group, which 
includes ISPs, security vendors, financial 
institutions, and law enforcement agencies). Let 
the company or person that was impersonated 
know about the phishing scheme. And report it 
to the FTC at FTC.gov/Complaint.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 11 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
BUSINESS
EMAIL IMPOSTERS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
A scammer sets up an email address 
that looks like it’s from your company.
Then the scammer sends out messages using 
that email address. This practice is called 
spoofing, and the scammer is what we call a 
business email imposter.
Scammers do this to get passwords and 
bank account numbers or to get someone 
to send them money. When this happens, 
your company has a lot to lose. Customers 
and partners might lose trust and take their 
business elsewhere — and your business 
could then lose money. 
HOW TO PROTECT YOUR BUSINESS
Use email authentication
When you set up your 
business’s email, make sure 
the email provider offers email 
authentication technology. That 
way, when you send an email 
from your company’s server, the 
receiving servers can confirm 
that the email is really from you. 
If it’s not, the receiving servers 
may block the email and foil a 
business email imposter.
Keep your security 
up to date
Always install the latest patches 
and updates. Set them to 
update automatically on your 
network. Look for additional 
means of protection, like 
intrusion prevention software, 
which checks your network for 
suspicious activity and sends 
you alerts if it finds any.
Train your staff
Teach them how to avoid 
phishing scams and show 
them some of the common 
ways attackers can infect 
computers and devices 
with malware. Include tips 
for spotting and protecting 
against cyber threats in your 
regular employee trainings 
and communications.

--- Página 12 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
WHAT TO DO
IF SOMEONE SPOOFS YOUR COMPANY’S EMAIL
Report it 
Report the scam to local law enforcement, the FBI’s Internet 
Crime Complaint Center at IC3.gov, and the FTC at FTC.gov/
Complaint. You can also forward phishing emails to spam@ 
uce.gov (an address used by the FTC) and to reportphishing@ 
apwg.org (an address used by the Anti-Phishing Working 
Group, which includes ISPs, security vendors, financial 
institutions, and law enforcement agencies).
Notify your customers
If you find out scammers are impersonating your business, tell 
your customers as soon as possible — by mail, email, or social 
media. If you email your customers, send an email without 
hyperlinks. You don’t want your notification email to look like 
a phishing scam. Remind customers not to share any personal 
information through email or text. If your customers’ data was 
stolen, direct them to IdentityTheft.gov to get a recovery plan.
Alert your staff
Use this experience to update your security practices and train 
your staff about cyber threats.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 13 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
TECH SUPPORT SCAMS
You get a phone call, pop-up, 
or email telling you there’s a 
problem with your computer.
Often, scammers are behind these calls, pop-up 
messages, and emails. They want to get your 
money, personal information, or access to your 
files. This can harm your network, put your data 
at risk, and damage your business.
HOW THE SCAM WORKS
The scammers may pretend to be from a well-known tech company, such as Microsoft. They use 
lots of technical terms to convince you that the problems with your computer are real. They may 
ask you to open some files or run a scan on your computer — and then tell you those files or the 
scan results show a problem…but there isn’t one.
The scammers may then:
Ask you to give them remote 
access to your computer — which 
lets them access all information 
stored on it, and on any network 
connected to it
Install malware that gives them 
access to your computer and 
sensitive data, like user names 
and passwords
Try to sell you software or repair 
services that are worthless or 
available elsewhere for free 
Try to enroll you in a worthless 
computer maintenance or 
warranty program
Ask for credit card information 
so they can bill you for phony 
services or services available 
elsewhere for free
Direct you to websites and ask 
you to enter credit card, bank 
account, and other personal 
information

--- Página 14 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO PROTECT YOUR BUSINESS
If a caller says your computer has a problem, hang up. A tech support call you don’t expect is a scam 
— even if the number is local or looks legitimate. These scammers use fake caller ID information to 
look like local businesses or trusted companies. 
If you get a pop-up message to call tech support, ignore it. Some pop-up messages about computer 
issues are legitimate, but do not call a number or click on a link that appears in a pop-up message 
warning you of a computer problem.
If you’re worried about a virus or other threat, call your security software company directly, using 
the phone number on its website, the sales receipt, or the product packaging. Or consult a trusted 
security professional.
Never give someone your password, and don’t give remote access to your computer to someone 
who contacts you unexpectedly. 
WHAT TO DO IF YOU’RE
SCAMMED
If you shared your password with 
a scammer, change it on every 
account that uses this password. 
Remember to use unique passwords 
for each account and service. 
Consider using a password manager.
Get rid of malware. Update or 
download legitimate security 
software. Scan your computer, and 
delete anything the software says is 
a problem. If you need help, consult 
a trusted security professional.
If the affected computer is 
connected to your network, you or a 
security professional should check 
the entire network for intrusions. 
If you bought bogus services, 
ask your credit card company to 
reverse the charges, and check 
your statement for any charges 
you didn’t approve. Keep checking 
your credit card statements to make 
sure the scammer doesn’t try to 
re-charge you every month.
Report the attack right away to the FTC at FTC.gov/Complaint. 
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 15 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
LEARN MORE AT:
CYBER INSURANCE
Recovering from 
a cyber attack 
can be costly.
Cyber insurance is one option that can help protect your business 
against losses resulting from a cyber attack. If you’re thinking 
about cyber insurance, discuss with your insurance agent what 
policy would best fit your company’s needs, including whether 
you should go with first-party coverage, third-party coverage, or 
both. Here are some general tips to consider.
WHAT SHOULD YOUR
CYBER INSURANCE POLICY
COVER?
Make sure your policy includes coverage for:
Data breaches (like incidents 
involving theft of personal 
information)
Cyber attacks (like breaches 
of your network)
Cyber attacks on your data 
held by vendors and other 
third parties
Cyber attacks that occur 
anywhere in the world (not 
only in the United States)
Terrorist acts
Also, consider whether your cyber insurance provider will:
Defend you in a lawsuit or 
regulatory investigation (look 
for “duty to defend” wording)
Provide coverage in excess 
of any other applicable 
insurance you have
Offer a breach hotline 
that’s available every day 
of the year at all times
The FTC thanks the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners (NAIC) for its role in developing this content.

--- Página 16 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
WHAT IS
FIRST-PARTY COVERAGE
AND WHAT SHOULD YOU LOOK FOR?
First-party cyber coverage protects your data, including employee and customer 
information. This coverage typically includes your business’s costs related to: 
Legal counsel to 
determine your 
notification and 
regulatory obligations
Recovery and 
replacement of lost 
or stolen data
Customer notification 
and call center 
services
Lost income 
due to business 
interruption
Crisis management 
and public relations
Cyber extortion 
and fraud
Forensic services 
to investigate the  
breach
Fees, fines, and 
penalties related to 
the cyber incident
WHAT IS
AND WHAT SHOULD YOU LOOK FOR?
THIRD-PARTY COVERAGE
Third-party cyber coverage generally protects you from liability if a third party 
brings claims against you. This coverage typically includes:
Payments to consumers 
affected by the breach
Costs for litigation and 
responding to regulatory 
inquiries
Claims and settlement 
expenses relating to 
disputes or lawsuits
Losses related to 
defamation and copyright 
or trademark infringement
Other settlements, 
damages, and judgments
Accounting costs 
More insurance resources for small businesses available at www.insureuonline.org/smallbusiness
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
The FTC thanks the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners (NAIC) for its role in developing this content.

--- Página 17 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
EMAIL AUTHENTICATION
Email authentication technology makes it a lot harder for a scammer to 
send phishing emails that look like they’re from your company.
Using email authentication technology makes it a lot harder for scammers to send phishing emails.
This technology allows a receiving server to verify an email from your company and block emails 
from an imposter — or send them to a quarantine folder and then notify you about them.
WHAT TO KNOW
Some web host providers let you set up your company’s business email using your domain name (which 
you may think of as your website name). Your domain name might look like this: yourbusiness.com. And 
your email may look like this: name@yourbusiness.com. Without email authentication, scammers can use 
that domain name to send emails that look like they’re from your business. If your business email uses your 
company’s domain name, make sure that your email provider has these three email authentication tools:
Sender Policy Framework (SPF)
tells other servers which servers are allowed to 
send emails using your business’s domain name. So 
when you send an email from name@yourbusiness.
com, the receiving server can confirm that the 
sending server is on an approved list. If it is, the 
receiving server lets the email through. If it can’t find 
a match, the email can be flagged as suspicious.
Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)
puts a digital signature on outgoing mail so servers 
can verify that an email from your domain actually 
was sent from your organization’s servers and hasn’t 
been tampered with in transit.
Domain-based Message Authentication,
Reporting & Conformance (DMARC)
is the essential third tool for email 
authentication. SPF and DKIM verify the address 
the server uses “behind the scenes.” DMARC 
verifies that this address matches the “from” 
address you see. It also lets you tell other 
servers what to do when they get an email that 
looks like it came from your domain, but the 
receiving server has reason to be suspicious 
(based on SPF or DKIM). You can have other 
servers reject the email, flag it as spam, or take 
no action. You also can set up DMARC so that 
you’re notified when this happens.
It takes some expertise to configure these tools so that they work as intended and don’t block legitimate 
email. Make sure that your email hosting provider can set them up if you don’t have the technical 
knowledge. If they can’t, or don’t include that in their service agreement, consider getting another provider.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 18 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
WHAT TO DO IF YOUR
EMAIL IS SPOOFED
Email authentication helps keep your business’s email from being used in phishing schemes 
because it notifies you if someone spoofs your company’s email. If you get that notification, 
take these actions:
Report it
Report the scam to local law enforcement, the FBI’s Internet Crime 
Complaint Center at IC3.gov, and the FTC at FTC.gov/Complaint. You 
also can forward phishing emails to spam@uce.gov (an address used by 
the FTC) and to reportphishing@apwg.org (an address used by the 
Anti-Phishing Working Group, which includes ISPs, security vendors, 
financial institutions, and law enforcement agencies).
Notify your customers
If you find out scammers are impersonating your business, tell your 
customers as soon as possible — by mail, email, or social media. If you 
email your customers, send an email without hyperlinks: you don’t want 
your notification email to look like a phishing scam. Remind customers 
not to share any personal information through email or text. And if your 
customers’ data was stolen, direct them to IdentityTheft.gov to get a 
recovery plan.
Alert your staff
Use this experience to update your security practices and train your staff 
about cyber threats.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 19 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
VENDOR SECURITY
Your business vendors
may have access to
sensitive information.
Make sure those vendors are securing their own computers 
and networks. For example, what if your accountant, who 
has all your financial data, loses his laptop? Or a vendor 
whose network is connected to yours gets hacked? The 
result: your business data and your customers’ personal 
information may end up in the wrong hands — putting your 
business and your customers at risk. 
HOW TO MONITOR YOUR VENDORS
Put it in writing
Include provisions for security 
in your vendor contracts, like 
a plan to evaluate and update 
security controls, since threats 
change. Make the security 
provisions that are critical to 
your company non-negotiable.
Verify compliance
Establish processes so you 
can confirm that vendors 
follow your rules. Don’t just 
take their word for it.
Make changes as needed
Cybersecurity threats 
change rapidly. Make sure 
your vendors keep their 
security up to date.

--- Página 20 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO PROTECT YOUR BUSINESS
Control access
Put controls on databases with sensitive information. Limit access to a need-to-know 
basis, and only for the amount of time a vendor needs to do a job.
Use multi-factor authentication
This makes vendors take additional steps beyond logging in with a password to 
access your network — like a temporary code on a smartphone or a key that’s 
inserted into a computer. 
Secure your network
Require strong passwords: at least 12 characters with a mix of numbers, symbols, and 
both capital and lowercase letters. Never reuse passwords, don’t share them, and 
limit the number of unsuccessful log-in attempts to limit password-guessing attacks.
Safeguard your data
Use properly configured, strong encryption. This protects sensitive information as 
it’s transferred and stored.
WHAT TO DO IF A
VENDOR HAS A
DATA BREACH
Contact the authorities
Report the attack right 
away to your local police 
department. If they’re not 
familiar with investigating 
information compromises, 
contact your local FBI office.
Confirm the vendor
has a fix
Make sure that the vendor 
fixes the vulnerabilities and 
ensures that your information 
will be safe going forward, 
if your business decides to 
continue using the vendor.
Notify customers
If your data or personal information was compromised, 
make sure you notify the affected parties — they could be 
at risk of identity theft. Find information on how to do that 
at Data Breach Response: A Guide for Business. Find it at 
FTC.gov/DataBreach.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 21 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
HIRING A WEB HOST
You may want a new
or upgraded website 
for your business.
But if you don’t have the skills to set up the web 
presence you want, you may want to hire a web host 
provider to do it for you. Whether you’re upgrading a 
website or launching a new business, there are many 
web-hosting options. When comparing services, 
security should be a top concern.
WHAT TO LOOK FOR
Transport Layer Security (TLS)
The service you choose should include TLS, 
which will help to protect your customers’ 
privacy. (You may have heard of its 
predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer, or SSL.) 
TLS helps make sure that your customers get 
to your real website when they type your URL 
into the address bar. When TLS is correctly 
implemented on your website, your URL will 
begin with https://.
TLS also helps make sure the information 
sent to your website is encrypted. That’s 
especially important if you ask customers 
for sensitive information, like credit card 
numbers or passwords.
Email authentication
Some web host providers let you set up your 
company’s business email using your domain 
name (that’s part of your URL, and what you may 
think of as your website name). Your domain name 
might look like this: yourbusiness.com. And your 
email may look like this: name@yourbusiness.com. 
If you don’t have email authentication, scammers 
can impersonate that domain name and send 
emails that look like they’re from your business. 
When your business email is set up using 
your company’s domain name, make sure that 
your web host can give you these three email 
authentication tools:
• 	Sender Policy Framework (SPF) 
•  Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)
•  Domain-based Message Authentication, 
Reporting & Conformance (DMARC)

--- Página 22 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
WHAT TO
LOOK FOR
Software updates
Many web host providers offer pre-built websites or software 
packages designed to make it quick and easy to set up your 
company’s website. As with any software, it is essential that you 
use the latest versions with up-to-date security patches. Make 
sure you know how to keep the website’s software up to date, 
or whether the web host provider will do this for you.
Website management
If a web host provider is managing your website, you may have 
to go through that provider to make any changes — though you 
may be able to log in and make some changes yourself. Some 
web host providers may instead offer you the option of managing 
the website on your own. It’s important to clarify from the 
beginning who will manage the website after it’s built.
WHAT TO ASK
When you’re hiring a web host provider, ask these questions to make sure you’re 
helping protect your customer information and your business data.
Is TLS included in the hosting plan? 
paid add-on? Will I set it up myself or 
will you help me set it up?
Can my business email use my 
business website name? If so, can 
you help me set up SPF, DKIM, 
and DMARC email authentication 
technology? (If not, consider looking 
for a provider that does.)
Are the most up-to-date software 
versions available with your service, and 
will you keep software updated? If it’s my 
responsibility to keep software updated, 
is it easy for me to do?
After the website is set up, who will be 
able to make changes to it? Will I have to 
go through you? Will I be able to log in 
and make changes on my own? If I can 
log in to make changes, is multi-factor 
authentication available?
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

--- Página 23 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness
SECURE 
REMOTE ACCESS
Employees and vendors may need to connect to your network remotely.
Put your network’s security first. Make employees and vendors follow strong security standards before 
they connect to your network. Give them the tools to make security part of their work routine.
HOW TO
PROTECT DEVICES
Whether employees or vendors use company-issued devices or their own when 
connecting remotely to your network, those devices should be secure. Follow these 
tips — and make sure your employees and vendors do as well:
Always change any pre-set router passwords and the 
default name of your router. And keep the router’s 
software up to date; you may have to visit the router’s 
website often to do so.
Consider enabling full-disk encryption for laptops and 
other mobile devices that connect remotely to your 
network. Check your operating system for this option, 
which will protect any data stored on the device if it’s 
lost or stolen. This is especially important if the device 
stores any sensitive personal information.
Change smartphone settings to stop automatic 
connections to public Wi-Fi.
Keep up-to-date antivirus software on devices that 
connect to your network, including mobile devices.
LEARN MORE AT:

--- Página 24 ---
CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO CONNECT
TO THE NETWORK 
REMOTELY
Require employees and vendors to use secure 
connections when connecting remotely to your 
network. They should:
Use a router with WPA2 or WPA3 encryption when connecting from their homes. 
Encryption protects information sent over a network so that outsiders can’t read it. 
WPA2 and WPA3 are the only encryption standards that will protect information sent 
over a wireless network.
Only use public Wi-Fi when also using a virtual private network (VPN) to encrypt 
traffic between their computers and the internet. Public Wi-Fi does not provide a 
secure internet connection on its own. Your employees can get a personal VPN 
account from a VPN service provider, or you may want to hire a vendor to create an 
enterprise VPN for all employees to use.
WHAT TO DO TO MAINTAIN SECURITY
Include information on secure remote access in regular trainings and new 
staff orientations.
Have policies covering basic cybersecurity, give copies to your employees, 
and explain the importance of following them.
Before letting any device — whether at an employee’s home or on a vendor’s 
network — connect to your network, make sure it meets your network’s 
security requirements.
Tell your staff about the risks of public Wi-Fi.
Train your staff:
Give your staff tools that will help maintain security:
• 	Require employees to use
unique, complex network
passwords and avoid
unattended, open workstations.
• Require multi-factor authentication to access areas of your
network that have sensitive information. This requires additional
steps beyond logging in with a password — like a temporary
code on a smartphone or a key that’s inserted into a computer.
• If you offer Wi-Fi on your
business premises for guests
and customers, make sure it’s
separate from and not connected
to your business network.
• 	Consider creating a VPN
for employees to use when
connecting remotely to the
business network.
• 	Include provisions for
security in your vendor
contracts, especially if the
vendor will be connecting
remotely to your network.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness

