=== Cybersecurity Frameworks.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
Cybersecurity “Goldilocks” Framework – Not Too Hard. Not Too SoO. Just Right! 
 
When you graphically depict the various, leading cybersecurity frameworks from "easier to 
harder" it primarily focuses on the sheer number of unique cybersecurity and privacy controls. 
We refer to it as the "cybersecurity Goldilocks dilemma" since organizaƟons struggle with ﬁnding 
a cybersecurity framework that is "not too hard, not too soO, but just right!" for their speciﬁc 
needs. To solve this, it comes down to ﬁrst deﬁning your "must have" and then "nice to have" 
requirements, since that helps point you to the most appropriate framework for your speciﬁc 
needs. This guide will help explain those concepts in greater detail. 
 
 
What Is The Best Cybersecurity Framework? 
 
The concept of a "best" cybersecurity framework is misguided, since the most appropriate 
framework to align with is enƟrely dependent upon your business model. The applicable laws, 
regulaƟons and contractual obligaƟons that your organizaƟon must comply with will most oOen 
point you to one of ﬁve (5) starƟng points to kick oﬀ the discussion about "Which framework is 
most appropriate for our needs?” 
 
 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) 
 
ISO 27001/27002 
 
NIST SP 800-171 
 
NIST SP 800-53 (moderate or high baselines) 
 
Secure Controls Framework (SCF) (or a diﬀerent metaframework) 
 
The number of included controls (e.g., requirements) directly impacts the number of domains 
covered by a speciﬁc cybersecurity framework. The lesser number of controls in a cybersecurity 
framework might make it appear easier to implement, but it also might not provide the necessary 
coverage that your organizaƟon needs from the perspecƟve of administraƟve, technical and 
physical cybersecurity and privacy pracƟces.  
 
Deﬁning "just right" for your cybersecurity and privacy controls is primarily a business decision, 
based on your organizaƟon's risk proﬁle, which needs to consider applicable laws, regulaƟons 
and contractual obligaƟons that are required to support exisƟng or planned business processes.  
 
 
 
Cybersecurity Frameworks Comparison 
NIST CSF vs ISO 27001/2 vs NIST 800-171 vs NIST 800-53 vs SCF 
+1-855-205-8437 
htps://www.complianceforge.com 
support@complianceforge.com  
CYBERSECURITY 
FRAMEWORK 
ISO 27001 / 27002 
SP 800-53 R5 
MODERATE BASELINE 
SP 800-53 R5 
HIGH BASELINE 
© 2023 
All Rights Reserved

--- Página 2 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
2 
Deﬁning Minimum Security Requirements (MSR) For Your OrganizaƟon 
 
Minimum Security Requirements (MSR) are made up on a combinaƟon of both mandatory and discreƟonary requirements. 
This can be considered a combinaƟon of you “must have” and “nice to have” requirements: 
 
Minimum Compliance Criteria (MCC) are “must have requirements” that are deﬁned by applicable laws, regulaƟons 
and contractual obligaƟons that your organizaƟon must comply with. 
 
DiscreƟonary Security Requirements (DSR) are “nice to have requirements” that are not legally-required but you feel 
you require to be secure, such as FIM, DLP, MFA, etc. 
 
Those two consideraƟons come together to address the "Compliant vs Secure" balancing act that determines if an 
organizaƟon's cybersecurity and/or privacy program will be both secure and compliant, or just compliant (e.g., focus on the 
bare minimums): 
 
Lesser mature organizaƟons tend to focus on compliance over security.  
 
More mature organizaƟons tend to focus on making compliance a natural byproduct of being secure. 
 
 
 
This concept is further explained in the Integrated Controls Management (ICM) framework: 
 
MCC are primarily externally-inﬂuenced, based on industry, government, state and local regulaƟons. MCC should 
never imply adequacy for secure pracƟces and data protecƟon, since they are merely compliance-related. 
 
DSR are primarily internally-inﬂuenced, based on the organizaƟon’s respecƟve industry and risk tolerance. While 
MCC establish the foundaƟonal ﬂoor that must be adhered to, DSR are where organizaƟons oOen achieve improved 
eﬃciency, automaƟon and enhanced security. 
 
 
How To IdenƟfy The Most Appropriate Cybersecurity Framework  
 
There are a few quesƟons that can help quickly narrow down appropriate and inappropriate frameworks for your needs: 
1. Do you store, process or transmit Controlled Unclassiﬁed InformaƟon (CUI)? 
a. If yes, look at NIST SP 800-171, NIST SP 800-53 or Secure Controls Framework (SCF). 
b. If no, proceed to quesƟon 2. 
2. Do you need to “speak NIST 800-53” for a contract? (e.g., FedRAMP or RMF) 
a. If yes, look at NIST SP 800-53 (moderate or high baseline) 
b. If no, proceed to quesƟon 3. 
3. Do you have complex compliance requirements? (e.g., mulƟple cybersecurity / privacy requirements) 
a. If yes, look at Secure Controls Framework (SCF). 
b. If no, look at NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) or ISO 27001 / 27002. 
 
See the graphic on the next page to visualize this decision process.

--- Página 3 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
3

--- Página 4 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
4 
If You Are Unsure Where or How To Start, Follow These Steps: 
 
 
Have a discussion with your legal and procurement departments to ﬁnd out what laws, regulaƟons and 
contractual obligaƟons your organizaƟon needs to comply with. If they don't know, then you need to perform that 
discovery with their involvement to ensure you have the facts. Do not try to work oﬀ assumpƟons! 
 
Talk with peers in your industry to idenƟfy what framework(s) their organizaƟon chose to align with and what 
those decisions were that led them to adopƟng one framework over another. You sƟll have to do your own 
analysis to determine what is right, but talking with peers can help avoid "re-invenƟng the wheel" on certain 
aspects of the analysis process. 
 
Determine what resources you have available to adopt and implement a framework. If it is a ﬂip of the coin 
decision between two frameworks where you feel both meet your needs, you need to be sure to take into account 
which framework will be the most eﬃcient to implement and maintain.  
 
Evaluate your organizaƟon's business and IT strategies to idenƟfy components that may require the adopƟon of a 
speciﬁc framework. For example:. 
o Your CEO puts out a roadmap to grow business and next year the company will start going aOer US 
Government and Department of Defense (DoD) contracts. This means your organizaƟon will have to address 
DFARS, FAR and CMMC compliance, which is based on NIST SP 800-171. This means alignment with NIST SP 
800-53 or SCF might be the best path forward. 
o A business unit is expanding into the European market and will focus on B2C sales. This means your 
organizaƟon will have to address EU GDPR for robust privacy pracƟces, on top of cybersecurity. This means 
you could select any framework to address underlying cybersecurity pracƟces, but you need a privacy 
program. The SCF might be the best path forward. 
 
Speak with a reputable consultant. Not all "cybersecurity professionals" have the same backgrounds, experiences 
and competencies. Speak with a Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) professional about compliance-related 
frameworks and scoping decisions. 
 
 
NIST CSF   <   ISO 27001/2   <   NIST SP 800-53   <   Secure Controls Framework (SCF) 
 
To help provide further context to the image: 
 
ISO 27001/2 is essenƟally a subset of the content found in NIST 800-53 (ISO 27002 went from fourteen (14) secƟons 
in 2013 to three (3) secƟons in 2022) where ISO 27002's cybersecurity controls ﬁt within the twenty (20) families of 
NIST 800-53 rev5 security controls. 
 
NIST CSF is a subset of NIST 800-53 and also shares controls found in ISO 27001/2.  
 
NIST CSF incorporates parts of ISO 27001/2 and parts of NIST 800-53, but is not inclusive of both - this is what makes 
NIST CSF is a common choice for smaller companies that need a set of "industry-recognized secure pracƟces" to align 
with, where ISO 27001/2 and NIST 800-53 are beter for larger companies or those that have unique compliance 
requirements.

--- Página 5 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
5 
Frameworks May Share Similarities, But Not All Frameworks Are Right For Your Needs 
 
If you look at this from the perspecƟve of a debate over which soO drink tastes best (e.g., Coke vs Pepsi), it generally comes 
down to personal preferences, since both products are essenƟally sugary, carbonated drinks and only diﬀer slightly in ﬂavor 
and packaging. The same arguments can be made for cybersecurity’s two heavy hiters – NIST 800-53 and ISO 27002. Gaining 
popularity is the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF), but it lacks appropriate coverage out of the box to be considered 
a comprehensive cybersecurity framework. For more complex compliance requirements, the SCF is a "metaframework" that 
encompasses over 100 laws, regulaƟons and frameworks in a hybrid framework that can span mulƟple compliance 
requirements. 
 
It is not uncommon for experienced cybersecurity practitioners to have fundamental misunderstandings of the differences 
between laws, regulations and frameworks. However, in this context, what is depicted on the heatmap is referred to as a 
"framework" since by the NIST Glossary definition, a framework is "a layered structure indicating what kind of programs can 
or should be built and how they would interrelate." Even a law or regulation can serve as a framework for building a 
cybersecurity program. 
 
 
We understand that it can be a little confusing when you look at it from a "heat map" perspective, since each cybersecurity 
framework has its own unique scope of applicability (e.g., specialization) and depth of coverage. However, understanding 
this can help you make an informed decision on where to start for the most appropriate framework(s) for your needs (often, 
organizations utilize more than one framework). You may even find you need to leverage a metaframework (e.g., framework 
of frameworks) to address more complex compliance requirements.

--- Página 6 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
6 
Secure Controls Framework (SCF) Overview 
If you are not familiar with the Secure Controls Framework (SCF), it was developed with the ambiƟous goal of providing a 
comprehensive catalog of cybersecurity and privacy control guidance to cover the strategic, operaƟonal and tacƟcal needs of 
organizaƟons, regardless of its size, industry or country of origin. By using the SCF, your IT, cybersecurity, legal and project 
teams can speak the same language about controls and requirement expectaƟons! The SCF is a "metaframework" which is a 
framework of frameworks. The SCF is a superset that covers the controls found in NIST CSF, ISO 27002, NIST 800-53 and over 
100 other laws, regulaƟons and frameworks. These leading cybersecurity frameworks tend to cover the same fundamental 
building blocks of a cybersecurity program, but diﬀer in some content and layout. Before picking a framework, it is important 
to understand that each one has its beneﬁts and drawbacks. Therefore, your choice should be driven by the type of industry 
your business is in and what laws, regulaƟons and contractual obligaƟons your organizaƟon needs to comply with.  
 
The SCF is an open source project that provides free cybersecurity and privacy controls for businesses. The SCF focuses on 
internal controls, which are the cybersecurity and privacy-related policies, standards, procedures and other processes that 
are designed to provide reasonable assurance that business objecƟves will be achieved and undesired events will be 
prevented, detected and corrected. 
 
The Secure Controls Framework (SCF) is a "best in class" approach that covers over 100 cybersecurity and privacy laws, 
regulaƟons and frameworks, including NIST 800-53, ISO 27001/2 and NIST CSF. Being a hybrid, it allows you to address mulƟple 
cybersecurity and privacy frameworks simultaneously. The SCF is a free resource for businesses to use. ComplianceForge's 
Digital Security Program (DSP) has 1-1 mapping with the SCF, so the DSP provides the most comprehensive coverage of any 
ComplianceForge product.   
 
The Secure Controls Framework (SCF) is commonly use by medium to large businesses, but can be used by any business with 
complex cybersecurity and privacy requirements.  
 
The SCF can be used for: 
 
Any sized business 
 
Any industry 
 
The SCF should not be used for: 
 
Simple compliance needs 
 
 
NIST SP 800-53 Overview 
The NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is on the ﬁOh revision (rev5) of Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-53, 
Security and Privacy Controls for InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons. From rev4 to rev5, NIST dropped the "US 
Government" focus for NIST SP 800-53 and now has it generalized enough for private industry to use. There are sƟll "NISTisms" 
for wording that are enƟrely US Government-focused, but it is a signiﬁcant improvement for private industry adopƟon. NIST 
800-53 "best pracƟces" are the de facto standard for private businesses that do business with the US federal government. 
 
One thing to keep in mind is that NIST 800-53 is a super-set of ISO 27002 - that means you will ﬁnd all the components of ISO 
27002 covered by NIST 800-53. However, ISO 27002 does not cover all of the areas of NIST 800-53.  
 
The Federal InformaƟon Security Management Act (FISMA) and the Department of Defense InformaƟon Assurance Risk 
Management Framework (RMF) rely on the NIST 800-53 framework, so vendors to the US federal government must meet 
those same requirements in order to pass these rigorous cerƟﬁcaƟon programs. AddiƟonally, for NIST 800-171, ProtecƟng 
Controlled Unclassiﬁed InformaƟon in Nonfederal InformaƟon Systems and OrganizaƟons, NIST 800-53 is called out as the 
best pracƟces for government contractors to secure their systems.  That further helps strengthen NIST 800-53 as a best 
pracƟce within the US, especially for any government contractors. We have a secƟon that describes NIST 800-171 and 
Cybersecurity Maturity Model CerƟﬁcaƟon (CMMC) if you are interested in that subject.

--- Página 7 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
7 
 
 
NIST 800-53 includes what both ISO 27002 and NIST CSF addresses, as well as a whole host of other requirements. NIST 800-
53 is the basis for the controls found in NIST 800-171 / CMMC. NIST 800-53 is commonly found in the ﬁnancial, medical and 
government contracƟng industries. One great thing about NIST 800-53, and it applies almost universally to all NIST 800-series 
publicaƟons. As with other NIST publicaƟons, it is freely available, at no cost to the public: 
htp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/PubsSPs.html. 
 
NIST 800-53 Moderate is commonly use by medium to large businesses and is primarily US-focused.  
 
NIST 800-53 Moderate can be used for: 
 
Defense Contractors (CMMC, RMF, etc.) 
 
Government Contractors (FedRAMP, RMF, etc.)  
 
Technology Businesses (e.g., MSPs, CSPs, etc.) 
 
General Business (large) 
 
Retail (large) 
 
Healthcare (large) 
 
Insurance (large) 
 
NIST 800-53 Moderate should not be used for: 
 
Smaller Businesses 
 
NIST 800-53 High is commonly use by medium to large businesses with an explicit requirement for the high baseline and is 
primarily US-focused.  
 
NIST 800-53 High can be used for: 
 
Defense Contractors (large) 
 
Government Contractors (large) 
 
Technology Businesses (large) 
 
NIST 800-53 High should not be used for: 
 
Smaller Businesses 
 
 
NIST SP 800-171 Overview 
The NaƟonal InsƟtute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is on the second revision (rev2) of Special PublicaƟon (SP) 800-171, 
ProtecƟng Controlled Unclassiﬁed InformaƟon in Nonfederal Systems and OrganizaƟons. The US NaƟonal Archives (NARA) 
runs the Controlled Unclassiﬁed InformaƟon (CUI) Program for the US Government and NARA speciﬁes NIST SP 800-171 and 
800-171A as the minimum requirements to protect CUI. NIST SP 800-171 is the basis for the controls used by the US 
Department of Defense's Cybersecurity Maturity Model CerƟﬁcaƟon (CMMC). As with other NIST publicaƟons, it is freely 
available, at no cost to the public - htp://csrc.nist.gov/publicaƟons/PubsSPs.html. 
 
NIST 800-171 can be used by any sized organizaƟon, since it is the required set of controls necessary to protect CUI where it 
is stored, processed and/or transmited.   
 
NIST 800-171 can be used for: 
 
Defense Contractors  
 
Government Contractors  
 
Technology Businesses (MSPs, MSSPs, etc.) 
 
NIST 800-171 should not be used for: 
 
FedRAMP or RMF compliance

--- Página 8 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
8 
 
ISO 27001 / 27002 Overview 
The InternaƟonal OrganizaƟon for StandardizaƟon (ISO) is a non-governmental organizaƟon that is headquartered in 
Switzerland. ISO can be a litle more confusing for newcomers to IT security or compliance, since a rebranding occurred in 
2007 to keep ISO’s IT security documents in the 27000 series of their documentaƟon catalog - ISO 17799 was renamed and 
became ISO 27002. To add to any possible confusion, ISO 27002 is a supporƟng document that aides in the implementaƟon 
of ISO 27001. Adding a litle more confusion to the mix, it is important to note that companies cannot cerƟfy against ISO 
27002, just ISO 27001. 
 
ISO 27001 Appendix A contains the basic overview of the security controls needed to build an InformaƟon Security 
Management System (ISMS), but ISO 27002 provides those speciﬁc controls that are necessary to actually implement ISO 
27001. EssenƟally, you can't meet ISO 27001 without implemenƟng ISO 27002: 
 
ISO/IEC 27001:2022 - InformaƟon security, cybersecurity and privacy protecƟon — InformaƟon security management 
systems — Requirements 
 
ISO/IEC 27002:2022 - InformaƟon security, cybersecurity and privacy protecƟon — InformaƟon security controls 
 
To keep things simple, just remember that ISO 27001 lays out the framework to create an “InformaƟon Security Management 
System (ISMS)” (e.g., a comprehensive IT security program), whereas ISO 27002 contains the actual “best pracƟces” details 
of what goes into building a comprehensive IT security program. Since ISO’s informaƟon security framework has been around 
since the mid-1990s, it was in “right Ɵme at the right place” to evolve into the de facto IT security framework outside of the 
United States. You will ﬁnd ISO 27002 extensively used by mulƟnaƟonal corporaƟons and for companies that do not have to 
speciﬁcally comply with US federal regulaƟons. ISO 27002 is also “less paranoid” than NIST 800-53, which has an advantage 
of being less complex and therefore easier implement. 
 
One unfortunate thing about ISO 27001/2, and it applies to all ISO publicaƟons, is that ISO charges for its publicaƟons - 
htps://www.iso.org/isoiec-27001-informaƟon-security.html 
 
ISO 27001 / 27002 is commonly use by medium to large businesses and is internaƟonally-recognized (e.g., ISO 27001 
cerƟﬁcaƟon).  
 
ISO 27001 / 27002 can be used for: 
 
General Business 
 
Retail 
 
Healthcare 
 
Insurance 
 
ISO 27001 / 27002 should not be used for: 
 
Defense Contractors 
 
Government Contractors 
 
 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) Overview 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) has the least coverage of the major cybersecurity frameworks. NIST CSF works great 
for smaller and unregulated businesses that just want to align with a recognized cybersecurity framework. The downside to 
the NIST CSF is that its brevity makes it incompaƟble with common compliance requirements, such as NIST 800-171, GDPR, 
CPRA/CCPA and PCI DSS (depending on SAQ level). For those, more comprehensive frameworks, such as NIST 800-53 or ISO 
27002 are recommended.   
 
In reality, NIST CSF is a "dumbed down" and civilianized version of NIST 800-53. It came out nearly a decade ago when NIST 
800-53 was enƟrely focused on the US Government, so there was a need for a subset of the controls that NIST 800-53 provided 
but for the non-enterprise space in private industry (e.g., tailored for small to medium businesses). Over the past decade, 
diﬀerent US Federal agencies have published documents describing how NIST CSF v1.1 controls can be leveraged to comply 
with HIPAA, FINRA, etc.

--- Página 9 ---
For educational purposes only. Seek out a competent professional to deﬁne your speciﬁc needs. 
 
9 
 
 
Overall, NIST CSF does not introduce new standards or concepts, but leverages and integrates industry-leading cybersecurity 
pracƟces that have been developed by organizaƟons like NIST and ISO. NIST CSF if organized into ﬁve categories of controls: 
 
1. IdenƟfy 
2. Protect 
3. Detect 
4. Respond 
5. Recover 
 
The NIST CSF comprises a risk-based compilaƟon of guidelines that can help organizaƟons idenƟfy, implement, and improve 
cybersecurity pracƟces, and creates a common language for internal and external communicaƟon of cybersecurity issues. The 
NIST CSF is designed to evolve with changes in cybersecurity threats, processes, and technologies. EssenƟally, the NIST CSF 
envisions eﬀecƟve cybersecurity as a dynamic, conƟnuous loop of response to both threats and soluƟons. However, the 
"framework implementaƟon Ɵers" should be avoided, since it is bad guidance. For example, you have to get to Tier 3 before 
you document policies, standards or procedures. That means a business at Tier 1 and Tier 2 would be considered negligent 
for failing to meet "reasonable expectaƟons" for a security program. This is an example of "the path to hell is paved with good 
intenƟons" so that component of NIST CSF should be avoided. 
 
NIST CSF is commonly use by smaller businesses and unregulated industries.  
 
NIST CSF can be used for: 
 
General Business 
 
Retail 
 
Healthcare (small) 
 
Insurance 
 
EducaƟon 
 
NIST CSF should not be used for: 
 
Defense Contractors 
 
 
Let ComplianceForge Help You With Your DocumentaƟon Needs! 
support@complianceforge.com

