=== Enabling a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
Enabling a Threat Hunting 
Capability in AWS
Learn how to conduct effective threat hunting in your 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment.

--- Página 2 ---
AWS Marketplace Introduction
Threat hunting offers proactive ways to detect anomalous behavior in your environment, but it is a journey with many 
considerations to make along the way. In this whitepaper, SANS analyst, Shaun McCullough walks through the threat 
hunting process and how it should fit into an organization’s overall security strategy. He also discusses what data to 
gather, options for analyzing it, and the kinds of tools threat hunters can use in their cloud environment.
Building on McCullough’s perspective, AWS Marketplace will share how you can begin this process to your AWS 
environment. They will provide an introduction to relevant software seller solutions that can enable your threat hunting 
journey through efficiencies and enhancements. Finally, Sumo Logic will be featured as an available option that can 
facilitate your threat hunting program.
The featured Sumo Logic solution for this use case can be leveraged in AWS Marketplace:
Sumo Logic Cloud-Native Machine 
Data Analytics Service (Annually)
Continuous intelligence across your 
entire application lifecycle and stack

--- Página 3 ---
Introduction
The infrastructure is built, a patching plan is in place, firewalls are locked down and 
monitored, assets are managed, and the SOC team is responding to alerts from the 
security sensors. When basic security hygiene is implemented, the threat hunting team 
needs to start evaluating infrastructure for any threats and undetected breaches.
Because infrastructures are complex, with many moving parts, teams need a plan to 
manage all the data from all the various operating systems, networking tools and 
custom applications. They also need to know which threats to look for, how to prioritize 
them and where to start hunting.
Cloud environments bring their own set of complexity and peculiarities for threat 
hunting. Customers realizing the benefits of elastic environments may find that systems 
that had a threat on Friday are terminated on Sunday. Reliance on cloud services likely 
means relying on the data they offer in a platform-specific format. In addition to the 
cloud, the management plane is now a new threat vector that teams have to consider, 
along with web apps, virtual machines and databases.
In this paper, we walk through the threat hunting process and how it should fit into 
an organization’s overall security strategy. We discuss how to determine what data to 
gather, options for analyzing it and the kinds of tools threat hunters can use in cloud 
environments.
©2019 SANS™ Institute
A SANS Whitepaper
Sponsored by:
AWS Marketplace
Written by Shaun McCullough   
November 2019
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Threat hunting
The proactive evaluation of 
the infrastructure operations 
to detect a threat beyond the 
deployed security tools

--- Página 4 ---
Threat Hunting on Premises vs. in the Cloud
It is vital to understand the process of threat hunting and how to approach it differently 
than standard security operations. Let’s look at this process in the context of a web 
application. To enhance understanding, this paper references a common use case found 
in cloud architecture: managing a web application.
Web Application Use Case
A database-based web application is running and is internet-facing. The virtual machine 
(VM) is running a critical business application and would be considered a potential 
target. Although the methods of attack against web applications in the cloud are similar 
to those on premises, threat hunters 
must adjust their approach and adopt 
a new set of tools for detection and 
remediation.
The cloud management plane is an 
attack vector that threat hunters must 
evaluate. If attackers were to gain a 
foothold in a web application, could 
they leverage it to get further into the 
cloud infrastructure? Could they make 
changes, set up persistence and spin 
up a cryptocurrency mining rig that 
will run at great expense to the victim? 
The damage can be financially and 
legally impactful. The web application is 
running on an Amazon Elastic Compute 
Cloud (EC2),1 a VM, that reaches out to 
an Amazon S3 bucket to retrieve configuration files every time the server starts up. This 
use case, illustrated in Figure 1, is simplified by design to help tell the threat hunting 
story. A properly architected web application would include additional protections.
How to Approach Threat Hunting
Threat hunting is more of an art than a science, in that its approach and 
implementation can differ substantially among various organizations and still 
be right. Every organization builds and operates its infrastructure in its own way; 
their teams have varied compositions of skill sets, talents and goals, and they face 
different threat risks. 
2
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
1  This paper mentions product names to provide real-life examples of how threat hunting tools can be used. The use of these examples is not an 
endorsement of any product.
Region
          Virtual 
Private Cloud
Availability 
Zone
Public Subnet
Private Subnet
AWS General 
Internet Gateway
Web Server
Database
Amazon S3 Bucket 
with Config Files
AWS  
Cloud
Figure 1. Web Application Use Case

--- Página 5 ---
Threat hunting is about approaching security from a 
different angle. For instance, the security operations 
center (SOC) has a collection of alerts from various 
security products, such as antivirus scans, email 
security solutions, vulnerability scans, firewall 
alerts, IDS/IPS, and login failures. If a scan shows 
that a production server is vulnerable with a critical 
alert, a SOC member creates a ticket for the server 
administration teams to plan for an update. The driver 
of that interaction is a security product alerting on a 
strong indicator. Thus a workload needs to be patched.
Threat hunting starts with the premise of, “Our main 
web application is facing the internet and may be the 
victim of a web attack. Let’s see how we can determine 
that.” Or maybe a weak indicator sparks suspicion: 
“Multiple failed SQL injection attacks in a row. The web 
server performance is slower. Let’s look for potential 
intrusions.” There are multiple scenarios in between 
that can all be considered threat hunting.
With a strong indicator from a security service, there 
is a process in place to remedy the situation. With 
threat hunting, the team is looking for anomalous behaviors without strong indicators. 
The outcome is likely unknown, the investigation is murky, and the process is research-
intensive. It is essential to build a threat hunting process and environment to maximize 
the effectiveness of the team.
Threat Hunting Loop
Building a threat hunting process from scratch takes time, resources and 
the ability to reach out to experts inside and outside the organization. 
The Threat Hunting Loop,3 shown in Figure 2, describes the process for 
determining what threat to hunt for, evaluating it and then automating 
the further investigation.
The threat hunting process is all about deciding what potential threat 
activity to look for, using tools to analyze the available data and teasing 
out patterns that could indicate a likely event. Each of these steps of the 
loop is unique to your organization, its infrastructure, the data available 
to the team and the tools at its disposal.
3
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
CIS Control
Control 1: Inventory and 
Control of Hardware Assets
Control 2: Inventory and 
Control of Software Assets
Control 3: Continuous 
Vulnerability Management
Control 5: Secure 
Configuration for Hardware 
and Software on Mobile 
Devices, Laptops, 
Workstations and Servers
Control 4: Controlled Use of 
Administrative Privileges 
Control 6: Maintenance, 
Monitoring and Analysis of 
Audit Logs
Description
Threat hunters need to know and 
manage hardware and software assets, 
so they can identify which infrastructure 
services to evaluate and what software is 
approved.
By eliminating software vulnerabilities, 
threat hunters can save time and 
resources.
 
 
 
Organizations should limit the use of 
admin privileges so threat hunters can 
better determine what is legitimate use.
The core of threat hunting relies on 
proper managing, monitoring and 
analysis of logs.
Table 1. CIS Critical Controls and Threat Hunting2
CIS Critical Controls Are Vital to Threat Hunting
The Center for Internet Security (CIS) identifies 20 essential security 
controls, the first six of which are basic controls. Table 1 lists these 
basics controls and describes their importance to creating an effective 
threat hunting program.
2  www.cisecurity.org/controls/cis-controls-list/
3  www.threathunting.net/sqrrl-archive
CREATE  
Hypothesis
INVESTIGATE  
via Tools and 
Techniques
UNCOVER  
New Patterns  
and TTPs
INFORM  
and Enrich  
with Analytics
Figure 2. Threat Hunting Loop

--- Página 6 ---
4
Create Hypothesis
Step one is to create the hypothesis. Did the attacker gain a foothold in the production 
web application? Could credentials be accidentally embedded in the packaged software? 
Is there an unknown, CPU-intensive process running on an important server? The sheer 
scope of potential hypotheses could grind any team progress to a halt.
Identifying and prioritizing the most at-risk infrastructure components requires an 
understanding of which systems are most vulnerable and their values to the business.4 
By starting with a threat modeling process, an organization has an outline of priority 
systems that have a risk and are vulnerable to some set of attacks.
The threat hunting team needs to build a set of techniques to investigate and create a 
hypothesis of how those attacks would work and what artifacts are in the logs that need 
to be analyzed. Organizations with an offense-focused team, like a pen-test group or red 
team, have in-house experts who research and practice attacker techniques.
Others may need to rely on researching published materials on attack techniques to 
create new hypotheses. For example, the MITRE ATT&CK™ Framework is growing in 
popularity among researchers and security companies (see Figure 3). Although not 
cloud-specific, the ATT&CK Framework provides a detailed explanation of the hows and 
whys of specific attacker techniques.
Specifically, the technique of gaining initial access by exploiting public-facing apps 
is relevant to the web app use case. ATT&CK describes the purpose of the technique, 
the types of platforms, potential mitigations and references to online reports. The 
information provided on this technique does not give us enough details to start hunting, 
At-risk infrastructure has one 
of four possible responses: 
attempt to mitigate the threat, 
eliminate the threat through 
infrastructure architecture, 
transfer the risk to a third party 
or just accept the risk.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Figure 3. MITRE ATT&CK 
Framework5
MITRE Enterprise ATTACK™ Framework
4  Learn more about the threat modeling process in “How to Protect a Modern Web Application in AWS,”  
www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/analyst/protect-modern-web-application-aws-38955, [Registration required.]
5  https://attack.mitre.org/

--- Página 7 ---
5
but it does point to the Open 
Web Application Security Project 
(OWASP) Top 10, which is more 
relevant to the use case. More 
detail is noted in Figure 4.
When identifying the potential 
attacks against a web 
application, one of the best 
sources is the OWASP Top 10. The 
OWASP Top 10 is a documented 
explanation of the top security 
threats to web applications, 
detailing the attacker techniques, 
examples and potential ways to 
mitigate. 
The top threat in the OWASP 
Top 10 is an injection attack, or 
getting untrusted data sent to 
the interpreter and executed 
as part of a command or query. 
(See Figure 5.) In a SQL injection 
attack on a web server, the 
attacker provides unexpected 
values for the username 
or password to thwart the 
interpreter from retrieving the 
expected SQL values.
The Cloud Security Alliance 
(CSA) publishes a report on 
top threats8 that focuses specifically on cloud 
services. The CSA also publishes an in-depth case 
study9 that walks through how those threats are 
carried out. Rhino Security is a pen-test company, 
but it publishes blogs and free tooling for cloud 
and containerization threats. 
Other publications and researchers who track and 
describe attacker techniques include:
•  Threat Post
•  Threat Hunting Project
•  AWS Security Bulletin
•  (ISC)2 Cloud Security Report
•  Summit Route
•  Toni de la Fuente’s running list of AWS Security Tools
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Figure 4. The Exploit Public-Facing Application Technique6
Figure 5. Number One Threat in the OWASP Top 107
6  “Exploit Public-Facing Application,” https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1190/
7  OWASP Top Ten Project, www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project
8  Cloud Security Alliance, Top Threats to Cloud Computing: Egregious Eleven,  
https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/artifacts/top-threats-to-cloud-computing-egregious-eleven/
9  Cloud Security Alliance, Top Threats to Cloud Computing: Deep Dive,  
https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/artifacts/top-threats-to-cloud-computing-deep-dive/

--- Página 8 ---
6
Investigate Via Tools and Techniques
Threat hunters go beyond the automated alerts from security products, past the strong 
indicators and into the squishy unknown. To do this, data must be collected, understood, 
analyzed and viewed comprehensively. Threat hunters must also pivot through different 
types of logs and explore unstructured or partially structured data.
The first hurdle can be the infrastructure itself. If the organization has dozens of unique 
operating system configurations, manually managed deployment or shared remote 
management, then logs and operational data will be highly variant, allowing real attacks 
to blend in. Let’s look at another use case.
Use Case: Gathering  
SSH Connections
Leveraging infrastructure 
as code, it is possible 
to deploy production 
systems without 
administrators SSH’ing, 
except in cases of 
troubleshooting. Teams 
can easily pull logs from 
any system and into 
Amazon CloudWatch. See 
Figure 6.
To use the Amazon CloudWatch agent to pull SSH connection logs from Amazon EC2s 
and into the Amazon CloudWatch logging service, follow these steps:
1.	
Install the Amazon CloudWatch agent on an EC2.
2.	
Configure the Amazon CloudWatch agent to send SSH connections to a specific 
log group.
3.	
Set up Amazon CloudWatch alarms to monitor for invalid user attempts and 
repeated SSH disconnects.
The Ever-Changing Cloud Infrastructure
Cloud service elasticity can make it difficult to directly interrogate systems when the 
environment is continually growing and shrinking throughout a day. For example, let’s 
say the web application is attacked at 10 p.m. with a SQL injection attack that triggers 
logs from the web application firewall (WAF). The next day at 9 a.m., the threat hunting 
team investigates to determine if the attack was successful. Unfortunately, the VM has 
already been terminated by the cloud autoscaling engine. The threat hunting team 
needs to decide what data to collect from the elastic system, whether that data is 
readily available or needs to be pulled or pushed by additional systems, and how long 
to keep the data before aging it off. The threat hunter needs to account for the risk of 
those systems, the amount of data that might need to be stored and how quickly a team 
will evaluate the data. The following demonstrates an example.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Alarm
Amazon 
CloudWatch 
Dashboard
Web  
Server
Amazon  
CloudWatch 
Agent
Log  
Group
Metric
Figure 6. Overview of Amazon 
CloudWatch Log Collection

--- Página 9 ---
7
Use Case: Post-Exploitation Detection
In a cloud environment of automation, once attackers gain access to the web 
application VM, they will want to use the MITRE ATT&CK tactic called Discover to find 
other services of interest, such as an accessible Amazon S3 bucket with the command 
ListBuckets. The web application we built has access to Amazon S3 buckets for 
configuration, but the IAM 
role does not allow listing 
of buckets. Automated 
systems likely already 
know the resources they 
need to interact with, so listing potential names is unnecessary. From the Amazon EC2 
instance, listing buckets results in an error, as shown in Figure 7.
AWS CloudTrail gathers 
and allows an analysis 
of Amazon Web Services 
(AWS) API requests. AWS 
CloudTrail, using the 
Amazon EC2 ID as the 
username, looks at the 
ListBuckets as an 
indicator. There is an 
AccessDenied error 
code, as shown in Figure 8.
Another option is to use the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) to look for all commands 
from the Amazon EC2 in question:
aws cloudtrail lookup-events --lookup-attributes  
AttributeKey=Username, AttributeValue=i-0b1515ec2d4b0b9df --query  
'Events[].{username:Username,time:EventTime,event:EventName,eventid: 
EventId,resource:(Resources[0].ResourceName)}' --output table -- 
region us-east-1
Figure 9 shows sample 
results of AWS CloudTrail 
lookup-events.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Figure 7. A ListBuckets Error
Figure 8. AccessDenied Error 
Code
Figure 9. Table Output of AWS CloudTrail 
lookup-events Command

--- Página 10 ---
8
Each event has a unique 
event ID. Figure 10 
shows the details for a 
specific event ID from 
the table shown in Figure 
9. Here, we use a Linux 
application, JQ, to carve up JSON on the command line.
This command shows the details of this particular AWS CloudTrail Event. JQ is an 
excellent tool for filtering, carving and formatting the JSON data in logs.
Uncover New Patterns and Apply Learned Lessons
Gathering data, running analytics and identifying the anomalies give the threat 
hunter unique insights into evaluating attack techniques and analyzing infrastructure 
systems. The team should become part of the threat modeling processes, helping 
the architecture and operations teams identify the cloud infrastructure that needs 
to be secured and evaluated. Changes such as improved monitoring, reduced chaotic 
deployments and better segmentation of infrastructure can all make threat hunting 
easier without losing operational capabilities.
Once threat hunters understand the challenges, they can start gathering detailed 
knowledge of potential threats, and the architecture and infrastructure management 
teams can support the threat hunters. It is time to begin collecting and analyzing the 
data needed to discover the attackers.
Inform with Data and Analytics
It is critical to get the right data into the right place for analysis. The data itself might 
need to be evaluated, enriched and prepared for analysis using scripts, tools or built-in 
cloud services.
Gathering the Data
The threat hunting team has to strike the right balance of how much data to capture. 
Requiring all the data from all the things increases costs, adds to the overhead of 
managing the data and increases the time and effort to sift through and analyze the 
enormous amounts of data. On the other hand, not having enough data will keep the 
threat hunters in the dark. First, identify any logs that are already being collected or 
are easy to obtain organically. AWS makes it easy to collect VPC logs showing data 
connections in and out of the VPC, API calls with AWS CloudTrail and Amazon S3 access 
logs, among others.
Then, using the attacker techniques, the team will focus on identifying the gaps in 
information and how to retrieve it. Most missing data is likely from applications or the 
host environment itself. Let’s revisit the web application use case.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Figure 10. JSON Output of AWS 
CloudTrail lookup-events

--- Página 11 ---
9
Web Application Use Case
For the web application use case, the VM itself has a wealth of information that could 
be of interest. Mainstream web servers generate standard logs that are stored on the 
VM. They also can be customized to generate more or fewer logs, or 
with changes to the format or location, and potentially compressed for 
transfer. Connection logs, for example, contain every HTTP request to 
the web server. Regularly managed web applications have a lot of the 
same connections. However, in a path traversal attack,10 the path could 
contain unique path calls that are attempts to get access to files on 
the web server.
After installing the Amazon CloudWatch agent, configure the Amazon 
CloudWatch configuration file to pull the Nginx access log  
/var/log/nginx/access.log. See Figure 11.
The Nginx connection logs 
are now stored in the /
var/log/nginx log 
group, accessible from 
Amazon CloudWatch Logs. 
See Figure 12.
Opening up the log group, 
it’s possible to search for a string, as shown in Figure 13.
This is an easy search. AWS provides an advanced query service called Amazon 
CloudWatch Logs Insights. Using a custom query language, we can search across all 
hosts for a regex of passwd, etc or ../ as shown in Figure 14. Note 
that / is a special character in regular expression (regex), so it has to 
be escaped with \.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
10  www.owasp.org/index.php/Path_Traversal 
Figure 11. Amazon CloudWatch Logs 
Configuration File
Figure 14. Query Amazon 
CloudWatch Logs Insights
Figure 12. Nginx Connection Logs
Figure 13. Quick Search for passwd

--- Página 12 ---
10
Figure 15 shows the 
results of the query.
Once the data is gathered, 
the data retention life 
cycle rule is applied and 
data is accessible, it’s time 
to figure out how to make 
the data more useful to 
the threat hunters by 
enriching the data.
Enriching the Data
When threat hunting, 
the data needs to tell a 
complex and complete 
story with multiple 
characters, settings and 
subplots. If a single log 
could tell the story, then a security product would quickly alert the SOC. Threat hunters 
are looking for more subtle anomalies in the data that look unique mainly because of 
the way an infrastructure is architected and operated. An attachment in the email is 
easily scanned and compared to a known list of malware. However, it’s harder to identify 
a nefarious remote desktop connection compared to a legitimate one. One easy way 
to bring data to life is to automatically evaluate the data and tag it, add metadata or 
enhance the data itself.
Web Application Use Case
There are several ways to automate the analysis and tagging or enriching the data. For 
logs collected by Amazon CloudWatch, such as Nginx connection logs, leveraging the 
alarms, metrics and dashboards works well. An Amazon CloudWatch Metric Filter will 
search for some specific patterns and create a metric count when that pattern shows 
up in the logs. An Amazon CloudWatch metric can generate an alarm, which can send 
an email or notify an AWS Lambda function. The AWS Lambda function can take action, 
such as copying the concerning data over to an Amazon S3 bucket for further analysis.
In the Amazon EC2 Role use case, the victim EC2 can perform S3 bucket reads. Let’s 
say there are 50 EC2 instances in the account; that would be too much data to analyze. 
However, if the EC2 reads a different S3 bucket than it has ever read before, that is a new 
activity. You should tag those reads.
Analyzing the Data
Once the data has been gathered, enriched and tagged, the threat hunting team starts 
evaluating the data to identify anomalous behaviors against the hypothetical attack 
techniques. The threat hunting team must be able to evaluate anomalies and quickly 
determine if they warrant an investigation or not, so the data must be easy to search, 
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Figure 15. Query Results
Separate Security Account 
It is good to gather and protect 
any logs from accidental or 
purposeful deletion. One 
recommendation is to use 
AWS Organizations to create a 
separate security organization 
(org) and to automatically move 
logs from the production org to 
the security org, where it can be 
protected and available to only 
the security or designated teams.

--- Página 13 ---
11
correlate and report. Various scripting tools and analytic platforms can provide threat 
hunters with raw log data to sift through. Comprehensive analytic platforms can also 
be utilized to help speed up analysis, and provide reporting services for sharing and 
collaboration among teams.
The next sections dive into options for analytic tools to bring into the environment to 
take threat hunting to the next level.
Tools for Analysis
Threat hunters can bring a wide range of tools to bear to analyze complex datasets from 
multiple sources, from scripts parsing raw data, to a full SIEM system that provides ad 
hoc and complex searching, reporting and investigations. The decision is usually about 
setup complexity, cost and 
the need to scale as the 
team grows. AWS provides 
several services that can 
be used and chained 
together to scripts and 
analytics.
Analyzing Logs 
Directly
Amazon CloudWatch is 
the core service for monitoring an AWS environment, because it is easy to get up and 
running and providing basic metrics, alarming and dashboards. As was previously 
discussed, Amazon 
CloudWatch and AWS 
CloudTrail can be used 
together to interact 
directly with collected 
data. AWS offers methods 
of exporting Amazon 
CloudWatch logs, collected 
from custom applications 
to Amazon S3, AWS Lambda 
or Amazon Elasticsearch 
Service (see Figure 16).
AWS provides another 
service called Amazon 
Athena, which runs SQL 
queries against data in 
an Amazon S3 bucket 
(see Figure 17). Customers 
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
Figure 16. Exporting Amazon 
CloudWatch Logs
Figure 17. Amazon Athena Dashboard

--- Página 14 ---
12
build virtual tables that organize and format the underlining log data inside the bucket 
objects. It takes time to ensure that data is formatted and managed.
Amazon GuardDuty is a managed service that is evaluating a growing number of findings 
that detect adversary behaviors and alerting the customer. Amazon GuardDuty evaluates 
potential behaviors by analyzing Amazon VPC Flow Logs. A similar real-time VPC flow 
logs analysis engine can be created using AWS Lambda, Amazon Kinesis, Amazon S3, 
Amazon Athena and Amazon QuickSight.
SIEMs in the Cloud
As a threat hunting team starts to build a corpus of analytics that it wants to run 
repeatedly, or as its investigating, monitoring and reporting needs become more 
comprehensive, a full SIEM is likely of interest. Several cloud-specific services, as well as 
traditional on-premises SIEMs, work with cloud infrastructure.
The threat hunting team should focus on developing and managing a tactical SIEM, 
which could be different from the SIEM a SOC might use. The tactical SIEM will likely 
have unstructured data, a shorter retention policy than the SOC’s SIEM, and the ability 
to easily determine what the infrastructure looked like in the recent past. In the cloud, 
good data management strategy should be implemented to be cost-effective, with 
pay-per-usage pricing. Generally, free or open source 
solutions tend to take more time and expertise to set up 
and maintain, but they are more customizable and cost 
little or nothing. Commercial solutions may cost more, but 
may come with better support, easy access to purpose-built 
connectors and more reporting options.
Elasticsearch, a favorite of the open source community, 
boasts a significant user base and supports plug-ins for data importing, translating 
and easy displaying with the Kibana application. AWS provides a managed Amazon 
Elasticsearch Service to make it easy to set up and run the search engine without having 
to do all the management heavy lifting. The company behind Elasticsearch, Elastic, 
has released a new app called the Elastic SIEM that is more focused on the security 
operations. Other products, such as ones from Sumo Logic and Splunk, also integrate 
directly with AWS and provide even richer and more full-featured analytic platforms.
After the tactical SIEM is stood up; the data is gathered, translated and enriched; and 
mechanisms for analytics and reporting are in place, the threat hunting team will start 
to discover repeated steps, analytics or actions. An emerging service that integrates 
with the SIEM, called Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR), can be 
helpful there.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS
As the threat hunting team’s analytics become 
more sophisticated, it may begin developing a 
set of repeatable analytics, enrichments or data 
gathering steps. If it’s repeatable and articulate, 
it can be automated.

--- Página 15 ---
13
Soaring with SOAR
Threat hunting is all about proactive analysis of data to detect the anomalous behavior 
that is undetectable by the security products. As the threat hunting team’s analytics 
become more sophisticated, it may begin developing a set of repeatable analytics, 
enrichments or data gathering steps. If it’s repeatable and articulate, it can be 
automated. A SOAR leverages the data storage and enrichment of the SIEM, understands 
basic rules of infrastructure integration and allows the easy buildout of playbooks to 
automate a course of action.
In the web application use case, if there are several failed SQL injection attempts, the 
final attempt could signify the last failure before success. The process of information 
from that host at that time would be of interest. A SOAR could be used to identify that 
ultimate SQL injection failure, tag it and then also tag the process log information from 
that time. The next step in the playbook could be to move those logs into a separate 
Amazon S3 bucket for more accessible analysis. The process logs by themselves could 
then be enriched by validating with a malware signature API to identify whether the 
process is known good or not. Gathering potential logs to analyze and automating the 
enriching processes when necessary could save threat hunters tedious and repetitive 
work. It could also help provide quicker triage. The SIEM with a SOAR could significantly 
improve speed to analysis.
Taking the playbook a step further, it’s possible to use data pushed to the SIEM and 
SOAR, such as the SQL injection detection logs from the WAF, and initiate an action. 
Rather than always pull the process list on an hourly basis, the SIEM could execute 
host-based tools, such as OSQuery, to reach out to the suspect web server and pull the 
process list in near real time. This automated response action allows the team to limit 
what passive data has to be managed, and makes it easier to correlate the process logs 
returned with the suspicious SQL injection attacks.
In the Amazon EC2 use case, the SIEM/SOAR could review the READs from an EC2 to an 
Amazon S3 bucket and detect a first-time READ to an S3 bucket. The SOAR playbook 
executes a host agent such as OSQuery or uses AWS services such as Amazon Inspector 
and AWS Systems Manager to interact directly with that EC2 to pull fresh process 
information and kick off a scan with Amazon Inspector. It then gathers all these reports 
and provides them in a single artifact bucket for the security analysts, creating a high-
priority message in the corporate chat system or sending out SMS alerts to on-call 
personnel. 
Some of the more sophisticated SOARs, such as Palo Alto’s Demisto and Splunk’s 
Phantom, also allow for the detection of cascading anomaly triggers that can perform 
automated remediations—taking our use cases together to build a sophisticated 
SOAR playbook.
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS

--- Página 16 ---
14
SOAR Playbook Use Case
The attacker performs several SQL injection attacks against a particular EC2. The SOAR 
kicks off a process listing and tags all logs from that EC2 with a unique identifier. One of 
those logs with the unique identifier specifies a failed Amazon S3 bucket listing attempt. 
In an automated system, the bucket is known, and a listing is unlikely to be normal. The 
SOAR identifies that this failed bucket listing happened on an EC2 that is being triaged. 
Because the organization is using auto-scaling, the SOAR notifies the auto-scaling 
system to deregister the EC2 (i.e., pull that EC2 out of service but keep it running). The 
SOAR playbook waits for the deregistering to finish, then removes all security groups 
except triage, and the triage group effectively isolates the EC2 from all other systems. 
The SOAR then performs a memory dump of the EC2, takes a snapshot and stops the 
EC2. All the data is gathered up and prepared in an Amazon S3 bucket for the security 
team when it is ready to investigate.
Conclusion
We are in the early days of threat hunting, specifically in cloud environments. 
Organizations are moving away from traditional server-based infrastructure into 
serverless, event-driven architectures that rely on native cloud services. Threat hunters 
will adapt their processes, tools and techniques to identify and neutralize the threats in 
this new infrastructure landscape.
Threat hunting is critical to finding the advanced attacker techniques that have escaped 
the detection of deployed security products. The threat hunting process requires 
constant learning about attacker techniques and your organization’s attack surface. 
Proper strategy ensures the right data is collected, enriched and available to the tools 
the threat hunting team uses to tease out suspicious anomalies from the vast and ever-
changing infrastructure. Your threat hunting process is always growing and adapting to 
new learnings, increasing experience and the changing threat landscape.
 
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS

--- Página 17 ---
15
About the Author
Shaun McCullough is a SANS instructor for the SEC545: Cloud Security Architecture and 
Operations class and gives back to his profession by mentoring and supporting the 
next generation of cyber professionals. With 25 years of experience as a software 
engineer, he has been focusing on information security for the past 15 years. Shaun is a 
consultant with H&A Security Solutions, focusing on secure cloud operations, building 
DevSecOps pipelines and automating security controls in the cloud. He also served 
as technical director of red and blue team operations, researched advanced host 
analytics, and ran threat intelligence on open source platforms in his work with the U.S. 
Department of Defense.
Sponsor
SANS would like to thank this paper’s sponsor:
How to Build a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS

--- Página 18 ---
Enabling a Threat Hunting 
Capability in AWS
Learn how to conduct effective threat hunting in your 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment.

--- Página 19 ---
Enabling a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS // 1
Enhance your threat hunting 
capabilities in AWS with 
third-party solutions. 
To begin threat hunting, an organization needs to create a solid foundation and capabilities to support that journey. 
Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) and Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR) 
solutions help you to focus on threat hunting by increasing security efficiency. Security experts no longer need to spend 
90% of their time on tedious and repetitive tasks. Time and resources can be gained back through automation and other 
activities and tools. 
One way to do this is to generate consistent workflows with guardrails to create efficiencies and reduce human error. 
You can also use unified collaboration and case management to reduce the number of systems an analyst must utilize 
by providing a single source of truth. Real-time analysis of threat intelligence can lead to automation of both future 
analyses and remediation tasks. And by setting in place brokered access, you can reduce time and risk imposed by 
escalation bottlenecks. This alone can create a dramatic reduction in time to resolution.
Sumo Logic’s Cloud-Native Machine Data Analytics Service is a SIEM solution that you can use in conjunction with SOAR 
products, such as Palo Alto Networks’ Demisto. This combination allows you to automate the process of evaluating and 
enriching complex data sets.
How AWS customers are using Sumo Logic to detect anomalous threats in their cloud environment 
Sumo Logic is a cloud-native analytics platform that reduces the time necessary to investigate security and operational 
issues. Some of the ways customers are leveraging Sumo Logic to enhance their threat hunting strategies include: 
•
Broad visibility across your AWS environment:  Sumo Logic has an architecture that processes more than 100
petabytes of data and handles 20+ million queries daily. It is an elastic solution that scales irrespective of data
volume or number of users. This means it can handle a huge variety of formats, whether structured, unstructured, or
semi-structured. This also means expansive visibility across your entire AWS environment.

--- Página 20 ---
Enabling a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS // 2
•
Increased analyst productivity: Sumo Logic pulls log files from a variety of AWS services, including AWS CloudTrail
and Amazon VPC Flow Logs, and centralized metrics from Amazon CloudWatch to provide continuous machine
learning-based intelligence. It analyzes logs for potential threats and indicators of compromise (IoCs) through a
Threat Intelligence database that can be correlated with log data through queries. These activities can help increase
analyst productivity by creating more signal and less noise.
•
Strong integrations with AWS: Sumo Logic offers more than 150 applications and integrations that make it easy
to aggregate data across your stack and down your pipeline. These tools include out-of-the-box pre-built analytics
and dashboards for AWS services. One integration in particular that supports threat hunting for AWS customers is
Sumo Logic’s Global Intelligent Service (GIS) for Amazon GuardDuty. It provides customers with a baseline of what’s
normal, what’s expected, and ways to dig deeper into the long tail of rare security events.

--- Página 21 ---
Enabling a Threat Hunting Capability in AWS // 3
Why use AWS Marketplace?
AWS Marketplace simplifies software licensing and procurement by offering thousands of software listings from 
popular categories like Security, Networking, Storage, Business Intelligence, Machine Learning, Database, and DevOps. 
Organizations can leverage offerings from independent security software vendors in AWS Marketplace to secure 
applications, data, storage, networking, and more on AWS, and enable operational intelligence across their entire 
environment. 
Customers can use 1-Click deployment to quickly launch pre-configured software and choose software solutions in 
both Amazon Machine Image (AMI) formats and SaaS subscriptions, with software entitlement options such as hourly, 
monthly, annual, and multi-year. 
AWS Marketplace is supported by a global team of security practitioners, solutions architects, product specialists, and 
other experts to help security teams connect with the software and resources needed to prioritize security operations in 
AWS.
How to get started with threat hunting solutions in AWS Marketplace
Security teams are using AWS native services and seller solutions in AWS Marketplace to help build automated, 
innovative, and secure solutions to address relevant use cases and further harden their cloud security posture. The 
following solution can help you get started:
Sumo Logic Cloud-Native Machine 
Data Analytics Service (Annually)
Continuous intelligence across your 
entire application lifecycle and stack

