=== GDPR for Third-Party Risk Management (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
GDPR for Third-party 
Risk Management
Everything you need to know to stay compliant
RiskRecon.com
 © Copyright 2019
Salt Lake City, UT
Draper, UT
Boston, MA
(801) 758 - 0560
sales@riskrecon.com

--- Página 2 ---
2
www.riskrecon.com
GDPR: How Organizations Go From 
Violations to Fines
3
GDPR Fines: What They Mean For You 
and What Your Organization Can Do
5
GDPR: Third-party Risk Management 
Obligations
8
Table of Contents

--- Página 3 ---
3
www.riskrecon.com
Europe’s GDPR is widely-discussed in today’s news cycles and for good reason. 
The regulation impacts many organizations throughout the world, and violations 
of the regulation can result in material ﬁ nes. One aspect that isn’t widely discussed 
but an organization facing the possibility of a GDPR ﬁ ne would want to know is 
how violations are identiﬁ ed and ﬁ nes decided upon. In other words, what’s the 
enforcement framework for GDPR?
Because the European Union (EU) is a union and not a federal government, its laws 
and regulations are directly enforced by its Member States. GDPR has required 
each Member State¹ to establish at least one independent supervisory authority 
(commonly referred to as data protection authorities, or DPAs), and these entities 
have responsibility to enforce GDPR in their respective Member State². 
Figure 1: GDPR’s Enforcement Process
Before the regulation can be enforced, a DPA must ﬁ rst ﬁ nd out that if an                   
organization has potentially violated GDPR. This discovery occurs in one of             
three ways:
1. 
A DPA conducts an audit of an organization
2. 
An organization reports a violation through its appointed data protection 
oﬃ  cer (DPO)
3. 
A complaint is lodged by an individual against an organization 
A DPA learns of a potential 
violation through a(n):
The DPA investigates
the potential violation
The PDA issues a 
judgment & ﬁnes on
the organization
The nature of the violation, 
the org’s privacy posture 
and other factors are 
Some Member States 
allow orgs to comment/
appeal a DPA’s decision
Audit by 
DPA
Report by 
DPO
Report by
an individual
1.
2.
3.
GDPR: How Organizations Go From Violations to Fines

--- Página 4 ---
4
www.riskrecon.com
When a potential violation has been identiﬁ ed, the DPA begins investigation to 
determine if a violation has actually occurred and if it has, its impact (if a        
violation impacts individuals residing in more than one Member State, the DPA of 
the Member State whose residents were most aﬀ ected takes the lead role).
Once an investigation has concluded, the (lead) DPA may issue the violating organi-
zation a monetary ﬁ ne. We’ll discuss ﬁ nes in our next article, but know for now that 
ﬁ nes are to be “eﬀ ective, proportionate and dissuasive” while taking into account 
the following (Article 83):
• The violating organization’s:
 
– Size 
– Posture towards privacy
– Attempts to mitigate the eﬀ ects of violations
– (If applicable) Previous GDPR violations
• The types of data involved
• The type of the violation, such as a(n):
– Unapproved data transfer
– Data breach
From here, the process diﬀ ers by each Member State, which are instructed by 
GDPR to create their own laws that govern how their respective DPAs may exercise 
authority. For example, the United Kingdom’s DPA (called the ICO) generally:
• Issues a preliminary ﬁ ndings and monetary ﬁ ne
•  Allows the organization & aﬀ ected individuals to comment on the ﬁ ndings            
and ﬁ ne
• Delivers a ﬁ nal decision
Regardless of if an appeal process exists in a given Member State, once a ﬁ ne has 
been issued, the violating organization will have to pay that ﬁ ne. 
¹  As of July 2019, the EU Member States are (listed alphabetically): Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, 
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the 
Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom
² DPAs have other responsibilities as well, but this article focuses solely on DPA’s enforcement responsibilities

--- Página 5 ---
5
www.riskrecon.com
Until July 8 & 9, 2019, the median GDPR ﬁ ne was €5,000. On those two days, two 
ﬁ nes in the hundreds of millions of euros were announced for GDPR violations. 
In this article, we’ll talk about what this change in enforcement posture means for 
your organization. 
The Breaches and The Fines
In the fall of 2018, British Airways and Marriott International, Inc. notiﬁ ed the 
public that they had experienced data breaches involving sensitive customer data. 
At British Airways, an injection vulnerability was exploited in Sep. 2018 by hackers 
who scraped 500,000 individuals’ credit card and other personal information. And 
in 2016, Marriott acquired Starwood Hotels, but unbeknownst to Marriott or 
Starwood, Starwood had been experiencing an undetected security breach since 
2014. This breach, ﬁ nally uncovered in Sep. 2018, exposed the personal details of 
over 300 million individuals, including over 5 million unencrypted 
passport numbers. 
On July 8 and 9, 2019, the UK’s GDPR enforcement agency (the ICO) announced 
that they intend to ﬁ ne¹ British Airways and Marriott £183.39 million ($204 million) 
and £99 million ($110 million) ﬁ nes, respectively, for these breaches².
What These Fines Mean For Your Organization
When announcing the two intended ﬁ nes, the UK’s ICO Commissioner, Elizabeth 
Denham, stated that: 
“People’s personal data is just that — personal. When an organization fails to 
protect it from loss, damage or theft it is more than an inconvenience. That’s why 
the law is clear – when you are entrusted with personal data you must look after it. 
Those that don’t will face scrutiny from my oﬃ  ce to check they have taken 
appropriate steps to protect fundamental privacy rights.” 
This statement and the size of the ﬁ nes make it clear that European oﬃ  cials intend 
to more strictly enforce GDPR going forward (keep in mind that ﬁ nes can be up to 
€20 million or 4 percent of annual, global revenue, whichever is greater). 
GDPR Fines: What They Mean For Your Organization 
and What You Can Do

--- Página 6 ---
6
www.riskrecon.com
To protect your organization from potential material ﬁ nes, it can take the following 
steps to ensure it’s GDPR compliant:
• If you haven’t already, determine how GDPR applies to your organization 
You’ll need to assemble the appropriate parties (e.g., legal counsel, information security, 
etc.) to determine how it applies to your organization. In short, though, if your orga-
nization targets or has data on individuals in Europe (regardless of their citizenship), 
your organization is required to comply with GDPR and protect that personal data. 
• Establish a mature security program
Article 32 requires organizations to implement information security measures that 
are commensurate to the risk associated with the personal data that the 
organization processes, including: 
• Pseudonymization (i.e., anonymization) and encryption of personal data
•  The ability to ensure ongoing conﬁ dentiality, integrity, availability and              
resilience of processing systems/services
•  A process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the eﬀ ectiveness of 
technical and organizational measures
If your organization is looking for a place to start, there are many industry standards 
that can guide you in implementing a mature program. ISO 27001 and NIST’s 
security framework are two such standards. 
•  Sign data protection agreements with all of your vendors who will handle       
personal data originating from Europe
If you transfer personal data to any of your vendors, your organization needs to create 
and sign data protection agreements with them that contractually obligate them to 
fully comply with GDPR and only process the data per your organization’s instructions.
•  When making acquisitions, conduct a thorough security & privacy assessment of 
the organization you’re wanting to acquire 
Many countries around the world are actively adopting privacy regulations similar 
                                                     to GDPR, and it’s likely that the United States will enact its own 
      federal privacy regulation in the coming years.

--- Página 7 ---
7
www.riskrecon.com
As Marriott learned the hard way, your organization assumes full responsibility for 
any GDPR violations that the company you acquire may be committing. If a process 
is not already in place, be sure to conduct a thorough security & privacy assessment 
when acquiring companies. Be aware that other GDPR-like privacy regulations 
exist, and more are coming 
Many countries around the world are actively adopting privacy regulations similar 
to GDPR, and it’s likely that the United States will enact its own federal privacy 
regulation in the coming years. California has already passed the California 
Consumer Privacy Act, which in a simpliﬁ ed way, is a less-strict version of GDPR. 
Additionally, the European Union has stated that any country wanting to sign a 
trade deal with the bloc will be required to comply with GDPR as a part of 
the agreement.
To ensure you’re complying with all of these regulations, consult with your 
organization’s legal counsel to obtain a full list of which regulations apply to 
your organization. 
How Can I Stay Updated On New GDPR Fines?
In addition to news announcements, http://www.enforcementtracker.com/ 
maintains a list of all GDPR ﬁ nes.
¹As we discussed in-depth in our previous article, The UK’s ICO ﬁ rst announces ﬁ nes, gives the ﬁ ned organizations time to 
respond, and then issues a ﬁ nal ﬁ ne.
²The diﬀ erences in breach amounts were likely due to the number of individuals residing in Europe for each breach.

--- Página 8 ---
8
www.riskrecon.com
Historically, organizations have sometimes been able to shift some liability for data 
breaches to their third-parties, if not all liability (this has been especially true for 
payment data breaches). 
Under GDPR, however, organizations are held responsible for all of their third-
parties’ actions and can even be held responsible for fourth-parties’ actions if the 
organization doesn’t adhere to GDPR’s requirements. In this article, we’ll discuss what 
these requirements are and what your organization can do to comply with them.
This article is organized as follows (includes links to article destinations):
• Deﬁ nitions
 
• Classiﬁ cations are Relative
• Requirements
 
• Controllers’ Requirements
 
• Processors’ Requirements
 
• Sub-processors’ Requirements
 
• Data Protection Agreement (DPA) Requirements 
 
• GDPR Requirements (high level)
• What Your Organization Can Do
Deﬁ nitions
Before we dive into the requirements, there are four terms that are vital to  
understand when dealing with GDPR and third/fourth-party risk management:
1. Controller
2. Processor (i.e., third-party)
3. Sub-processor (i.e., fourth-party)
4. Processing
1.  Controller: When many people hear the word controller in a compliance 
situation, they are often thinking of someone who ensures their organization’s 
policies are properly implemented and followed. GDPR’s deﬁ nition of a 
controller, however, is completely diﬀ erent. Under the Regulation, a controller 
is any entity (a person or organization) that decides how personal data is to 
be processed. 
GDPR: Third-party Risk Management Obligations

--- Página 9 ---
9
www.riskrecon.com
2.  Processor (i.e., third-party): A processor is any entity (a person or organization) 
that actually processes personal data under and per the controller’s instructions. 
Processors are not permitted to use the controller’s data in any way except as 
explicitly authorized by the controller.
3.  Sub-processor (i.e., fourth-party): While not an oﬃ  cial GDPR term, sub-processor 
is a term that’s widely used in practice. A sub-processor is an entity that performs 
processing activities on behalf of the processor.
4.  Processing: Processing is a pretty broad term, essentially meaning any interaction 
with data. The oﬃ  cial deﬁ nition is “any operation performed on personal data 
(whether automated or not) including adapting/altering, aligning, collecting, 
combining, consulting, destroying, erasing, making available (e.g., distributing 
through transmission or dissemination), organizing, recording, restricting, 
retrieving, storing, structuring and using.”
Classiﬁ cations are Relative
www To illustrate this concept, let’s consider a ﬁ ctional scenario from the perspec-
tive of each entity. 
In this scenario, ABC, Corp. has hired Data Processing, Corp. to process some 
personal data. Data Processing, Corp. has, in turn, hired a company named 
Analyze Your Data, Inc. to assist with processing personal data. Analyze Your 
Data, Inc. has also hired some companies so it can fulﬁ ll its contract with Data 
Processing, Corp.
Classiﬁ cations from ABC, Corp’s Perspective
From ABC, Corp’s perspective, the other entities have the following relationships 
with it:
• Data Processing, Corp - Processor (i.e., third-parties)
• Analyze Your Data, Inc - Sub-Processor (i.e., fourth-parties)
• Other Companies - n/a (i.e., ﬁ fth-parties)

--- Página 10 ---
10
www.riskrecon.com
Classiﬁ cations from Data Processing, Corp.’s Perspective
From Data Processing, Corp.’s perspective, the other entities have the following 
relationships with it:
• ABC, Corp - Controller
• Analyze Your Data, Inc - Processor (i.e., third-party)
• Other Companies - Sub-processors (i.e., fourth-parties)
Classiﬁ cations from Analyze Your Data, Inc.’s Perspective
• ABC, Corp. - No relationship
• Data Processing, Corp - Controller
• Other Companies - Processors (i.e., third-parties)
Requirements
Now that we understand how organizations are classiﬁ ed and their relationships 
with one another, let’s now discuss each type of organization’s responsibilities 
under GDPR as well as the requirements for entering into data protection 
agreements and some of GDPR’s high-level requirements.
Under GDPR... organizations are held responsible for all of their third-parties’ actions 
                    and can even be held responsible for fourth-parties’ actions 
                                                         if the organization doesn’t adhere to GDPR’s requirements.

--- Página 11 ---
11
www.riskrecon.com
Controllers’ Requirements
Controllers are required to:
• Ensure that their processors are able to comply with GDPR, including:
 
–  Only using processors who provide suﬃ  cient guarantees, especially in 
regards to the following, that the processor can implement appropriate 
mechanisms that enable compliance with GDPR:
– Expert knowledge
– Reliability
– Resources
• Approve in writing of each of a processor’s sub-processors
 •  Enter into a contract with each processor, commonly referred to as a 
“Data Protection Agreement” 
Processors’ Requirements
Processors are required to:
• Process the controller’s data only as directed in writing by the controller
• Have all sub-processors approved by the controller:
– In writing
– Prior to being been engaged 
• Take full responsibility if a sub-processor fails to comply with GDPR
•  Ensure that its personnel who will be processing the controller’s data are 
committed to keeping the data conﬁ dential
•  Assist the controller, when necessary and upon request from the controller, in 
complying with GDPR by carrying out data protection impact assessments
•  After completing the processing activities on the controller’s behalf and at the 
discretion of the controller, return or delete all personal data. 
•  If a processor is required to store the data to comply with another law, though, 
it may do so
•  Enter into a contract with the controller, commonly referred to as a “Data 
Protection Agreement”
•  Enter into a contract with each of its sub-processors, commonly referred to 
as a “Data Protection Agreement”
Sub-processors’ Requirements
Because GDPR’s classiﬁ cation of entities are relative, sub-processors will enter into 
agreements with the organization hiring them as a processor and the hiring 
organization as a controller. Each entity will then be subject to those types of 
entities’ requirements.

--- Página 12 ---
12
www.riskrecon.com
Data Protection Agreement (DPA) Requirements
DPAs may either be a(n):
• Individual contract
•  Standard contractual clause adopted by the European Commission or a 
Supervisory Authority
DPAs must:
• Bind the processor to the controller
• Specify the:
 
– Types of data to be processed
– Duration of the processing
– Reasons for the processing
– Processor’s speciﬁ c tasks & responsibilities
– Risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects
• Require a processor to:
 
– Take all measures required in Article 32 (more on this below)
 
– Assist the controller in:
 
–  Fulﬁ lling the controller’s obligations to data subjects’ rights 
(more on this below)
 
– Complying with Articles 32 - 36 (more on this below)
 
– Have all sub-processor approved by the controller
 
– Enter into a separate DPA with each of its sub-processors
 
–  After completing the processing activities on the controller’s behalf and 
at the discretion of the controller, return or delete all personal data 
(unless required to retain the data by another law)
 
–  Provide all necessary information to the controller in order:
 
 
•  To demonstrate compliance with GDPR
 
 
•  For the controller to conduct audits of the processor
 
–  Inform the controller if, in the processor’s opinion, any of the controller’s 
instructions violate GDPR
While not speciﬁ cally required, most controllers require their processors to inform 
them of any data breaches within 24 hours of becoming aware of the breach.

--- Página 13 ---
13
www.riskrecon.com
GDPR Requirements (high level)
Covering GDPR’s requirements would take multiple articles, but at a high-level 
GDPR requires organizations to:
•  Respect the privacy rights of persons residing in the EU (not just EU citizens)
•  Ensure the conﬁ dentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of personal data 
In this piece, we referenced several GDPR Articles and the rights of data subjects. 
At a high level, these requirements are as follows:
• Data Subjects’ Rights
• The Right to Rectiﬁ cation
 
–  An individual may direct an organization to correct personal information 
that is incorrect
• The Right to Be Forgotten
 
–  An individual may direct an organization to delete any and all of their 
personal data
• The Right to Data Portability
 
–  Personal data must be easily transferable between related services
 
–  An individual may direct an organization to either provide them with a 
copy of easy transferable personal data or transfer the personal data 
to a similar type of service
• The Right to Object
 
–  An individual may direct an organization to not process any and all 
their personal data
• The Right to the Restriction of Processing
 
–  An individual may direct an organization to stop processing any and 
all their personal data
GDPR requires organizations to  respect the privacy rights of persons 
                                      residing in the EU and ensure the confidentiality, integrity, 
   availability and resilience of personal data

--- Página 14 ---
14
www.riskrecon.com
• The Right of Access
 
–  An individual may direct an organization to provide them with all of their 
personal data, including:
 
 
•  Data the individual’s given to the organization
 
 
•  Data the organization has:
 
 
 •  Collected on the individual
 
 
 •  Inferred about the individuals
• Article 32 - Security of Processing Personal Data
 
–  Processes and controls must be implemented to ensure that personal 
data is appropriately secured, depending on the type & sensitivity of 
the data processed
• Article 33 - Breach Notiﬁ cation to Supervisory Authorities
 
–  Processors must promptly notify their controllers of any personal data 
breaches
 
–  Controllers must notify the appropriate Supervisory Authority that 
a personal data breach has occurred within 72 hours of becoming 
aware of the breach
• Article 34 - Breach Notiﬁ cation to Data Subjects
 
–  Controllers must inform data subjects of any data breach immediately 
if the data breach is likely to cause a high degree of harm to the 
data subjects
 
–  Controllers do not have to inform each data subject impacted by a data 
breach if any of the following conditions are met:
 
 
•  The data was appropriately encrypted
 
 
•   The controller has taken appropriate steps to ensure harm to the 
data subjects resulting from the data breach are no longer likely 
to occur
 
–  Doing so would be too time-consuming, costly, etc. In these cases, a 
public notiﬁ cation is to be made.
 
–  Supervisory Authorities may require controllers to inform data subjects of 
any data breaches, regardless of impact on the data subjects
GDPR is a complex piece of legislation, and how an organization is classified is entirely relative.
                   These distinctions are important to know as you enter into contracts with different entities 
and consider your organization’s respective responsibilities.

--- Página 15 ---
15
www.riskrecon.com
• Article 35 - Data Protection Impact Assessment
 
–  If processing activities are likely to signiﬁ cantly aﬀ ect the rights & 
freedoms of data subjects, controllers must carry out a data protection 
impact assessment
• Article 36 - Prior Consultation with Supervisory Authorities 
 
–  If a data protection impact assessment ﬁ nds a high level of risk to 
data subjects’ rights and freedoms without appropriate controls or 
compensating controls in place, the controller must consult with the 
appropriate supervisory authority prior to processing the data
What Can Your Organization Do?
To ensure your organization complying with GDPR and to limit its exposure to risk:
• Compliance-with-GDPR
•  Thoroughly vet all third-parties and fourth-parties that will touch personal 
data subject to GDPR
•  Enter into Data Protection Agreements with each of your third-parties 
who will be processing personal data subject to GDPR
• For US-based companies, consider becoming US-EU Privacy Shield compliant
•  Be compliant with all of GDPR, including respecting the privacy rights of 
individuals residing in the EU (not just EU citizens)

--- Página 16 ---
16
www.riskrecon.com
GDPR: How Organization Go From Violations to Fines
• 
https://europa.eu/european-union/about-eu/countries_en
• 
The GDPR - A Comprehensive Overview by Andrew Sanford ( https://drive.
google.com/ﬁ le/d/1s6jc71ghKk7NInz-yci9ALo4uV5JyxMu/view )
• 
UK’s ICO https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/news-and-events/news-and-
blogs/2019/07/statement-intention-to-ﬁ ne-marriott-international-inc-more-
than-99-million-under-gdpr-for-data-breach
GDPR Fines: What THey Mean for Your Organization and 
What You Can Do
• 
https://news.marriott.com/2016/09/marriotts-acquisition-of-starwood-
complete/
• 
https://news.marriott.com/2018/11/marriott-announces-starwood-guest-
reservation-database-security-incident/
• 
https://krebsonsecurity.com/tag/starwood-breach/
• 
https://www.britishairways.com/en-gb/information/incident/data-theft/
latest-information
• 
http://starwoodstag.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/us-en_
Second-Response.pdf
• 
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-53/rev-4/ﬁ nal
• 
https://www.iso.org/isoiec-27001-information-security.html
• 
https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/news-and-events/news-and-blogs/2019/07/
intention-to-ﬁ ne-marriott-international-inc-more-than-99-million-under-gdpr-
for-data-breach/
• 
https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/news-and-events/news-and-blogs/2019/07/
ico-announces-intention-to-ﬁ ne-british-airways/
• 
https://www.ft.com/content/e489abba-0dc5-11e8-8eb7-42f857ea9f09
GDPR: Third-party Risk Management Obligations
• 
Original, full text of GDPR
• 
GDPR’s recitals (i.e., oﬃ  cial guiding instructions)
• 
Personal experience dealing with GDPR
Sources

