=== GDPR Data Protection Principles (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Protection 
Principles

--- Página 2 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 2 
Contents 
 
Introduction............................................................................................................................................. 4 
Lawfulness, Fairness, and Transparency ................................................................................................ 4 
Purpose Limitation .................................................................................................................................. 5 
Data Minimization................................................................................................................................... 6 
Data Accuracy .......................................................................................................................................... 7 
Storage Limitation ................................................................................................................................... 8 
Integrity, Confidentiality, and Security ................................................................................................10 
Exemptions ............................................................................................................................................10 
Accountability .......................................................................................................................................10 
Data Protection by Design and by Default ...........................................................................................11 
Processors ..............................................................................................................................................11

--- Página 3 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 3 
Introduction  
Data protection law requires compliance with a number of rules, which are set out in Article 5 of the 
GDPR. This article will provide an introduction to each of the rules, known as ‘Principles’.  
The key thing to understand about the Principles is that, unless a relevant exemption applies, all of 
the Principles should be observed in relation to all aspects of personal data processing. In other 
words, complying with some, or even most, of the Principles is never sufficient. For example, an 
organization will breach data protection law where it:  
• 
stores inaccurate data on a person, even where the information was obtained after a 
transparency notice had been properly made available;  
 
• 
keeps data on a person longer than is necessary for the purpose for which those data were 
acquired, even where the organization’s records meet excellent security standards; or  
 
• 
collects too much data for the stated purpose, even where it has the consent of the relevant 
individual to the collection.  
The importance of the Principles is underlined by the extent of the powers of national data 
protection regulators in relation to their breach, including powers of investigation and powers 
relating to issuing significant fines. Further, an individual may bring an action against a controller 
where he or she suffers damage as a result of a breach by the controller of one or more of the 
Principles.  
The Data Protection Principles (GDPR, Article 5)  
(1) 
Personal data shall be processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the 
data subject (‘lawfulness, fairness and transparency’)  
(2) 
Personal data shall be collected only for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not 
further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes (‘purpose limitation’)  
(3) 
Personal data shall be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the 
purposes for which they are processed (‘data minimization’)  
(4) 
Personal data processed shall be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date (‘accuracy’)  
(5) 
Personal data shall be kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no 
longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed (‘storage 
limitation’) 
(6) 
Personal data shall be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the 
personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against 
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or organisational measures 
Lawfulness, Fairness, and Transparency  
Due to the wide definition of processing, the First Principle has a particularly extensive application to 
all usages of personal data. The First Principle can be divided into three obligations:  
(1) 
to process personal data lawfully;  
(2) 
to process such data fairly;

--- Página 4 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 4 
(3) 
to process personal data transparently.  
As far as ‘lawful’ processing is concerned, all personal data processing (unless a relevant exemption 
applies) will be unlawful unless one of the conditions in Article 6 of the GDPR is met. The set of 
conditions in Article 6 can therefore be seen as a ‘threshold’ or minimum standard for the processing 
of personal data.  
Article 9 requires that where the personal data being processed fall within certain special categories 
or types (e.g., data relating to health, religious beliefs, ethnic origin, political opinions, or 
membership of a trade union), processing will not be lawful unless one of a further set of conditions 
is met. It should be noted that the requirement for an Article 9 condition is in addition to the 
requirement for an Article 6 condition where an organization is processing special category personal 
data.  
Compliance with Article 6 (and, where relevant, Article 9) is not sufficient to comply with the First 
Principle in its entirety, because such processing must also be ‘fair’. Furthermore, the processing 
must be transparent. This means that the data subject must be provided with certain information at 
the point of data collection.  
Purpose Limitation  
The purpose limitation Principle requires that data shall be collected only for specified, explicit, and 
legitimate purposes, and not processed in any manner that is incompatible with those purposes.  
This Principle has two limbs. The first limb imposes an obligation on the controller to make known 
(‘specify’) the purposes for which the data are required. Further, such notice must be explicit and 
the purposes of the processing must be legitimate.   
The second limb requires that personal data must not be processed in a manner incompatible with 
the purpose(s) for which they were obtained. Since a different purpose would not necessarily be an 
incompatible purpose, this Principle does not itself necessarily proscribe processing for a purpose 
other than those that have been specified. In determining whether the manner of processing is 
compatible with the specified purpose(s), one of the factors that the 1998 Act obliged controllers to 
bear in mind was the purpose or purposes for which the personal data were intended to be 
processed by any third party to whom the data were to be disclosed. Controllers could therefore 
consider requiring organizations (other than their processors) to which they disclose personal data 
to use those data only within the remit of the purposes for which the controller obtained the 
information. In April 2013, an Opinion of the Article 29 Working Party (WP 203—see 
<http:/www.dpdocuments.com>) set out extensive guidance for controllers on the substantially 
similar principle in the Directive. The Opinion stated that all relevant circumstances must be taken 
into account when making an assessment of whether further processing is compatible with the 
original purpose. In particular, the following key factors should be considered: 
• 
the relationship between the purposes for which the personal data have been collected and 
the purposes of further processing;  
 
• 
the context in which the personal data have been collected and the reasonable expectations 
of the data subjects as to their further use;  
 
• 
the nature of the personal data and the impact of the further processing on the data subjects;

--- Página 5 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 5 
• 
the safeguards adopted by the controller to ensure fair processing and to prevent any undue 
impact on the data subjects. 
For further comment on the Working Party’s Opinion, see Treacy B and Bapat A, ‘Purpose 
Limitation—Clarity at Last’, Privacy & Data Protection, Volume 13, Issue 6 
(<http://www.pdpjournal.com>).  
The GDPR makes reference to certain types of processing that will not be regarded as being 
incompatible for the purposes of this Principle. These purposes are: archiving in the public interest, 
scientific or historical research purposes, and statistical purposes.  
Example of the purpose limitation  
Principle XYZ Water plc, a UK water utility company, maintains a database of its customers. David, 
who moves into XYZ’s area of operation is added to the database at the point he registers with XYZ 
for water services. The data protection notice provided to David states that personal data will be 
collected and used for all purposes associated with the provision of water and water-related 
products and services. Several months later, XYZ sells David’s details to Mainstream Mobiles (MM) 
so that MM can send David marketing materials on its mobile telephone services. By providing 
David’s personal data to MM, XYZ is in breach of the Second Principle.  
Data Minimization  
In order to comply with the data minimization Principle, organizations are required to ensure that 
their processing of personal data is adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation 
to the purposes for which they are processed.  
This Principle essentially obliges controllers to obtain and use only those pieces of information that 
are necessary for the controller’s purpose(s) for processing such information. In practice, 
organizations are more likely to breach the ‘relevant’ and ‘limited to what is necessary’ aspects of 
this Principle than they are the ‘adequacy’ aspect, since organizations tend to collect too much 
information on people rather than too little.  
Just like in the GDPR, the data minimization principle in the previous Directive required personal 
data processing to be ‘adequate’ and ‘relevant’. But instead of requiring the processing to be 
‘limited’ to what is necessary, it outlawed ‘excessive’ processing. The difference between these two 
concepts is the subject of some debate, but it seems likely that the former is somewhat narrower 
than the latter. Organizations will need to review their processing operations to ensure that their 
processing is limited to what’s needed, rather than not being excessive. 
Determining whether an organization is in compliance with the data minimization principle consists 
of two key steps. The first step is to ascertain the relevant purpose or purposes for processing. For 
example, the purpose of collecting information in an ‘application for employment’ form is to make a 
decision about whether the job applicant is suitable to be short-listed or interviewed for the 
position. The purposes of collecting information from a customer who is purchasing an item online 
may be to take payment, to deliver the item, and to send future marketing communications. Once 
the purposes have become clear (remember to document the purposes in a suitable statement), 
then the second step is to consider whether each proposed processing activity is actually needed in 
order to achieve the purpose(s). Organizations will breach the principle where they collect or use 
any personal data that are not needed for the specified purpose(s).

--- Página 6 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 6 
To achieve compliance with the Principle, controllers should initially review all aspects of data 
collection—such as employment application forms, customer details forms, call centre forms, and 
website and app registration forms—to ensure that information requested from individuals is 
adequate, relevant, and limited to what’s needed for the purpose(s). The time of collection is an 
important one, because organizations cannot process what they don’t have—limit the data 
collected, and you limit the circumstances where the data minimization principle can be 
subsequently breached.  
However, the Principle does not only apply to data collection—it applies to all types of data 
processing. It is quite possible that data initially collected lawfully under the Principle can 
subsequently be processed unlawfully. The next step will therefore be to ensure that all processing 
(e.g. standard data usage operations within the organization) meets the requirements of the 
Principle.  
Another example of where the Principle might be breached in circumstances other than where data 
are being collected is where the controller is making a determination as to which members of staff 
should have access to personal data. In making this determination, regard should be had to whether 
particular staff members need such access in order to carry out their functions. It would, for 
example, be ‘more than necessary’ for the entirety of an employee’s personnel record (including 
information on qualifications, past employment, and sickness) to be made available to all staff 
members within the organization.  
Example of the data minimization Principle  
XYZ Recruiting Ltd requires job applicants to state their driving licence number on its standard client 
details form. James, who wishes to apply for a job that does not involve driving, fills in the form 
including details of his driving licence. In processing details of James’ driving licence, XYZ Recruiting 
Ltd will breach the data minimization Principle. It should be noted that it is not possible for an 
individual to consent to processing more of his or her personal data than is needed for the 
purpose(s). Thus, it will be no defence for a controller to say that the data subject voluntarily 
submitted information in response to a ‘non-compulsory’ question (often marked by the use of, or 
absence of, an asterisk) in an online or offline application form.  
In summary, this Principle requires ‘data minimization’—only those personal data that are necessary 
to achieve the purpose(s) of processing should be collected, stored, and used by controllers. The 
holding of any additional personal data on individuals is unlawful.  
Data Accuracy 
The data accuracy Principle is relatively self-explanatory, and is substantially similar to the 
equivalent provision in the previous Directive. It provides that ‘personal data must be accurate and, 
where necessary, kept up to date’.  
Although the requirement to keep information up to date applies only where ‘necessary’, there is no 
such qualification to the requirement of accuracy. Thus, the requirement to ensure that personal 
data are accurate is an absolute one. There is no definition of ‘accurate’ in the GDPR, but Section 
70(2) of the 1998 Act gave a helpful definition of ‘inaccurate’:  
For the purposes of this Act data are inaccurate if they are incorrect or misleading as to any matter of 
fact.

--- Página 7 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 7 
The presence of the word ‘fact’ in that provision would seem to indicate that an expression of 
opinion could not breach the data accuracy Principle, no matter how unreasonable or ridiculous the 
opinion.  
It should be remembered that the obligation to ensure that personal data processed by the 
controller are accurate and up to date is an obligation on the controller, and cannot be delegated. 
Thus, a statement given at the commencement of processing by controllers to data subjects, to the 
effect that data subjects must inform the controller of any subsequent change to the data, is unlikely 
to be enough, on its own, to satisfy the Principle. On the other hand, it would be unreasonable to 
interpret the Principle as requiring controllers to investigate data subjects’ circumstances intrusively 
to check for data accuracy. In some cases, compliance with the Principle can be achieved by 
providing a method for data subjects to check and amend data held by the controller—this may be 
done, for example, by the provision of an annual statement to customers, setting out the 
information held (or providing a method for checking data, such as secure online access to customer 
details on a website) and requesting updates, as relevant.  
In November 2012, Prudential was served by the Information Commissioner’s Office with a 
monetary penalty of £50,000 when one customer received tens of thousands of pounds into his 
retirement fund in error—the money should have been paid into the retirement fund of a different 
customer, who had the same first name, last name, and date of birth. The two accounts had been 
mistakenly merged some years earlier and, despite being alerted to the error by one of the 
customers, the controller had failed to adequately investigate the issue.  
Where the controller finds that it is in fact processing inaccurate data, the GDPR requires that every 
reasonable step must be taken to ensure that such inaccurate data, having regard to the purposes 
for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without delay. This provision goes beyond that 
which was required under the previous legislation, and requires organizations to manage their data 
assets more proactively.  
The steps that are necessary to keep personal data up to date will depend on the type of data being 
processed and the purpose for its processing. Data kept in a record of a board meeting, for example, 
will not need to be updated where they consist of an accurate record of that meeting. Data kept, on 
the other hand, for determining a person’s creditworthiness from time to time are likely to require 
regular updating amendments.  
The obligations on controllers under the Principle dovetail with the right of individuals to have their 
personal data rectified or erased. 
Storage Limitation 
The storage limitation Principle provides that personal data shall not be kept for longer than is 
necessary for the purposes of processing. The basic objective of this Principle is that organizations do 
not retain obsolete data, and its wording is substantially similar to that contained in the previous 
Directive.  
One difference between the old law and the GDPR is that pseudonymization is now permitted as a 
method of complying with this Principle.  
In general terms, the storage limitation Principle requires the deletion, destruction, anonymization, 
or pseudonymization of personal data that are no longer needed for their purpose(s). There are no 
interpretative provisions in the GDPR that relate to this Principle per se, and there are no set periods 
of time to which controllers must adhere. Thus, controllers will usually be required to make their

--- Página 8 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 8 
own determinations as to an appropriate retention period having regard to the purposes for which 
data were collected, and the information conveyed in the notice made available to data subjects.  
Since this Principle concerns data storage and access, those responsible for data protection within an 
organization may consider it appropriate to gain at least rudimentary knowledge and skills in the 
field of records management. In any event, data retention is a necessary part of the overall records 
management strategy of an organization.  
As a first step to complying with the Principle, controllers should undertake an analysis of all 
personal data processed, as well as the purpose(s) of such processing. Then it will be necessary to 
consider, in relation to each aspect of personal data processing, for how long those data will need to 
be kept for the relevant purpose(s). A useful methodology for compliance (and to demonstrate, or 
be accountable for, such compliance) is to draw up a ‘data retention policy’ or ‘retention schedule’ 
that sets out the relevant periods of time for which data in relevant categories may be held.  
Where controllers are under a legal obligation (e.g., as a result of national law) to retain data on 
individuals for a certain specified period, the relevant data retention periods should be no shorter 
than that specified period. Similarly, personal data should be kept for at least the length of time 
equivalent to any relevant statutory limitation period for the purposes of litigation—thus accident-
at-work records should be kept for at least three years following the date of the incident (the 
statutory limitation period in the UK for bringing personal injury claims is three years) and interview 
records (where the person has not been given the job) should be kept for at least three months (the 
period of time within which a person can bring a claim for discrimination in the UK). Specific industry 
sector rules or codes should also be considered, although it must be borne in mind that the legal 
requirement in data protection law to delete personal data that are no longer needed by the 
controller will override any conflicting non-statutory retention preferences.  
A significant factor in determining a retention period for each type of personal data held is the 
purpose(s) for which the information was collected. This may necessitate a lengthy retention period 
(e.g., the home address of an employee will need to be retained for at least the duration of the 
person’s employment), or a very short period (a document that is used solely to check a person’s 
identity—for example, when an organization needs to confirm a person is indeed who they say they 
are before carrying out a particular function—must be destroyed as soon as the identity has been 
ascertained).  
In some cases, there will be more than one purpose for holding information. In this situation, it is 
appropriate and acceptable to retain the information until all of the purposes have been satisfied. In 
the example of the identity check, where the document required is a copy of a driving licence, and 
the person is engaged as a driver, then retaining the personal data contained in the licence may be 
required for the duration of the person’s employment.  
The storage limitation Principle will not allow information to be held indefinitely or speculatively. 
The latter refers to the situation where a controller contends that it ‘might need’ the information in 
the future for some currently unascertained purpose. Further, guidance from the Information 
Commissioner states that personal data should not be kept ‘just in case’ it is needed if there is only a 
‘small possibility’ that it will be used.  
In the circumstances where a person has indicated that he or she no longer wishes to receive 
marketing materials, the controller should retain enough information (‘suppression data’) on the 
person to allow compliance with the request.

--- Página 9 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 9 
Upon the expiry of any retention period, the relevant personal data should be deleted, or destroyed. 
Anonymization, and in some cases pseudonymization, will be acceptable, although care should be 
taken to ensure that the data are successfully anonymized (see Graham N and Crowley S, 
‘Anonymisation and Pseudo-anonymisation of Personal Data’, Privacy & Data Protection, Volume 10, 
Issue 2—<http://www.pdpjournal.com>). Since deletion, destruction, anonymization, and 
pseudonymization are all aspects of ‘processing’, those activities must comply with data protection 
legal requirements. Of particular relevance is the need for security in personal data processing.  
Integrity, Confidentiality, and Security  
The ‘integrity and confidentiality’ Principle requires that personal data be processed in a manner 
that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including protection against unauthorized or 
unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage, using appropriate technical 
and organizational measures. Although the basic legislative provision is contained in Article 5 of the 
GDPR, this should be read in conjunction with Article 32, which provides further provisions on data 
security requirements. 
This Principle is substantially similar to that contained in the previous Directive. However, the 
consequences of a ‘personal data breach’ are considerably more significant and require greater work 
on the part of the controller (and processor) than in the previous legislation. In particular, in the case 
of serious breaches, organizations are required to inform both the relevant national regulator and all 
persons potentially affected. See Chapter 5 for a detailed discussion on the GDPR’s requirements in 
relation to ‘breach notifications’. The aim of the legislative provisions on data security is to ensure 
that appropriate care is taken of personal data, and that the attention of controllers and processors 
is focussed on this objective (with significant adverse consequences if they do not).  
Where the controller proposes to engage a processor to carry out data processing operations on its 
behalf, it must ensure that the processor provides sufficient guarantees to implement appropriate 
technical and organizational measures so that the processing meets the requirements of the 
Regulation.  
Exemptions 
There are a number of exemptions from the application of the data protection Principles to 
particular types of processing. Some exemptions relate to certain individual Principles and some to 
only certain aspects of one or more of the Principles.  
Accountability  
Article 5(2) of the GDPR expressly provides that controllers (note, not processors) are responsible 
for, and must be able to demonstrate compliance with, the six Principles contained in that Article. 
This requirement, known as ‘accountability’, is a new one to data protection law, introduced by the 
GDPR.  
In addition, Chapter IV of the GDPR imposes duties of responsibility and accountability on 
controllers. For example, controllers must adopt policies and implement appropriate measures to 
ensure and demonstrate that the processing of personal data complies with the GDPR. The 
measures to be implemented are the criteria against which the accountability of the controller will 
be assessed. Controllers are required to maintain necessary documentation of all processing 
operations, implement appropriate security measures, perform Data Protection Impact

--- Página 10 ---
Data Protection Principles                        © NT Business Consulting & Training 
Page | 10 
Assessments, comply with requirements for prior notification or approval from the relevant 
supervisory authority, and designate a Data Protection Officer (‘DPO’), if required.  
Data Protection by Design and by Default  
Article 25 of the GDPR requires controllers to implement appropriate technical and organizational 
measures:  
• 
which are designed to implement the data protection Principles; and  
 
• 
for ensuring that, by default, only the minimum quantity of personal data are processed for each 
purpose.  
Processors  
Processors’ responsibilities have been significantly expanded when compared with the previous 
Directive.  
The GDPR requires controllers to ‘choose a processor providing sufficient guarantees of security’. It 
also imposes an obligation on both parties to enter into a contract governing the obligations of the 
parties. Both parties also have direct obligations for implementing appropriate technical and 
organizational measures.  
Processors must document the processing operations for which they are responsible, and must (as 
well as the controller) cooperate with supervisory authorities, including by providing information 
and granting access to the processor’s premises and processing equipment.  
Processors may be ordered by the supervisory authority to comply with data subjects’ requests to 
exercise their rights, even though the primary responsibility for such compliance rests with the 
controller.  
The security obligations and the requirements concerning the appointment of a qualified Data 
Protection Officer apply directly to processors.  
Most significantly, the supervisory authority’s powers extend to processors, including the ability to 
impose monetary penalties. These provisions significantly affect the risk profile for processors, and 
will likely require amendments to existing services agreements.

