=== ISO-27001-self-assessment-checklist.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
How ready are you?
This document has been designed to assess your company’s readiness for an ISO/IEC 27001:2013 
Information Security Management System certification assessment. By completing this questionnaire your 
results will allow you to self-assess your organization and identify where you are in the process in relation to 
the main requirements of the standard.
Context of the organization
Have you determined the external and internal issues 
that are relevant to your organization’s purpose that 
affects your ability to achieve the intended results of your  
Information Security Management System (ISMS)? 
Do you have a way of reviewing and monitoring changes 
to these issues on a regular basis?
Have you determined the needs and expectations of 
interested parties that are relevant to the ISMS and do 
you review these on a regular basis?
Have you determined the scope of your ISMS and did 
this take into account the external and internal issues, 
interested parties, and any activities performed by other 
organizations?
Have the internal and external issues that may impact  
the ISMS been considered?
Are you aware of the requirements of interested parties, 
including regulatory, statutory and those of your 
customers?
Have the risks and opportunities associated with these 
issues and requirements been considered?
Has continual improvement been considered?
Leadership
Has top management taken responsibility for the 
effectiveness of the ISMS and have they communicated 
the importance of an effective ISMS?
Have the policy and objectives for the ISMS, which are 
compatible with the context and strategic direction of the 
organization, been established and communicated?
Are the roles within the ISMS clearly defined, annotated 
and communicated?
Do the roles carry the authority for ensuring conformance 
and reporting, as well as the responsibility?
Continued >>
Information Security
Management
ISO/IEC
27001:2013
ISO/IEC 27001:2013  
Self-assessment questionnaire

--- Página 2 ---
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Information Security Management – Self-assessment questionnaire
Continued >>
Leadership – continued
Has a programme to ensure the ISMS achieves its 
outcomes, requirements and objectives been developed 
and put in place?
Planning
Have the risks and opportunities that need to be 
addressed to ensure the ISMS can achieve its intended 
result(s) been established?
Has an information security risk assessment process 
been established to include risk acceptance criteria?
Has the information security risk assessment process 
been developed to be repeatable?
Does it produce consistent, valid and comparable 
results?
Has the organization planned actions to address these 
risks and opportunities and integrated them?
Is the information security risk assessment process 
sufficient to identify risks associated with loss of 
confidentiality, integrity and availability for information 
within the scope of the ISMS?
Have risk owners been identified?
Are information security risks analyzed to assess the 
realistic likelihood and potential consequences that 
would result, if they were to occur, and have the levels 
of risk been determined?
Are information security risks compared to the 
established risk criteria and prioritized?
Has information about the information security risk 
assessment process been documented and is available?
Does the information security risk treatment process 
allow for appropriate options?
Have controls been determined to implement the risk 
treatment option chosen?
Have the controls determined, been compared with  
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Annex A to verify that no necessary 
controls have been left out?
Have you produced a Statement of Applicability to 
justify Annex A exclusions and inclusions, together with 
the control implementation status?
Has an information security risk treatment plan been 
created?
•	 Have risk owners reviewed and approved the plan?
•	 Have residual information security risks been 
authorized by risk owners?
•	 Has it been documented?
Planning – continued
Is there a plan for the determining the need for changes 
to the ISMS and managing their implementation?
Have measurable ISMS objectives and targets 
been established, documented and communicated 
throughout the organization?
In setting its objectives, has the organization determined 
what needs to be done, when and by whom?
Support
Has the organization determined and provided 
the resources needed for the establishment, 
implementation, maintenance and continual 
improvement of the ISMS (including people, 
infrastructure and environment for the operation  
of processes)?
Do you have a defined and documented process  
for determining competence for ISMS roles?
•	 Is that process and the competence of those  
in those roles documented? 
Has the organization determined the knowledge 
necessary for those performing ISMS roles?
Has the organization ensured that those persons 
who can affect the performance and effectiveness of 
the ISMS are competent on the basis of appropriate 
education, training, or experience or taken action to 
ensure that those persons can gain the necessary 
competence? 
Has the documented information required by 
the standard and necessary for the effective 
implementation and operation of the ISMS  
been established? 
Is the documented information controlled in a 
way that it is available and adequately protected, 
distributed, stored, retained and under change control, 
including documents of external origin required by the 
organization for the ISMS?
Operation
Has documented evidence been kept to show that 
processes have been carried out as planned?
Is there a plan for the determining the need for changes 
to the ISMS and managing their implementation?
When changes are planned, are they carried out in 
a controlled way and actions taken to mitigate any 
adverse effects? 
If you have outsourced processes, are they appropriately 
controlled?

--- Página 3 ---
Operation – continued
Are information security risk assessments carried out 
at planned intervals or when significant changes occur, 
and is documented information retained? 
Has the organization planned actions to address  risks 
and opportunities and integrate them into the system 
processes?
Have these actions been documented?
Performance evaluation
Do you have criteria for the evaluation, selection, 
monitoring of performance and re-evaluation of your 
external providers?
Have you determined what needs to be monitored and 
measured, when, by whom, the methods to be used, and 
when the results will be evaluated? 
Are the results of monitoring and measurement 
documented?
Are internal audits conducted periodically to check  
that the ISMS is effective and conforms to both  
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 and the organization’s 
requirements?
Has the organization established a program for internal 
audits of the ISMS?
Are results of these audits reported to management, 
documented and retained?
Where nonconformities are identified, has the 
organization established appropriate processes for 
managing nonconformities and the related corrective 
actions?
Do top management undertake regular and periodic 
reviews of the ISMS?
Does the output from the ISMS management review 
identify changes and improvements?
Performance eveluation – continued
Are the results of the management review documented, 
acted upon and communicated to interested parties as 
appropriate?
Where nonconformities are identified, has the 
organization put in place appropriate processes for 
managing nonconformities and the related corrective 
actions?
Do top management carry out regular and periodic 
reviews of the ISMS?
Does the output from the ISMS management review 
identify changes and improvements?
Are the results of the management review documented, 
acted upon and communicated to interested parties as 
appropriate?
Improvement
Have actions to control, correct and deal with the 
consequences of nonconformities been identified?
Has the need for action been evaluated to eliminate the 
root cause of nonconformities to prevent reoccurrence?
Have any actions identified been implemented 
and reviewed for effectiveness and given rise to 
improvements to the ISMS?
Is documented information kept as evidence of the 
nature of non-conformities, actions taken and the 
results?
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Information Security Management – Self-assessment questionnaire
 © BSI Group           BSI/UK/820/SC/0316/EN/BLD 
Find out more
Call: +44 (0)345 080 9000
    Visit: bsigroup.com 
At BSI we create excellence 
by driving the success of our 
clients through standards. We help 
organizations to embed resilience, 
helping them to grow sustainably, 
adapt to change, and prosper 
for the long term. 
We make excellence a habit.
The trademarks in this material (for example the BSI logo 
or the word “KITEMARK”) are registered and unregistered 
trademarks owned by The British Standards Institution in 
UK and certain other countries throughout the world.

