=== Liquidity Risk Managing Funding and Asset Risk by Erik Banks.pdf ===

--- Página 2 ---
Global Financial Markets series
Global Financial Markets is a series of practical guides to the latest financial market 
tools, techniques and strategies. Written for practitioners across a range of disciplines 
it provides comprehensive but practical coverage of key topics in finance covering 
strategy, markets, financial products, tools and techniques and their implementation. 
This series will appeal to a broad readership, from new entrants to experienced prac-
titioners across the financial services industry, including areas such as institutional 
investment; financial derivatives; investment strategy; private banking; risk manage-
ment; corporate finance and M&A, financial accounting and governance, and many 
more.
Titles include:
Erik Banks
LIQUIDITY RISK
Managing Funding and Asset Risk
Daniel Capocci
THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO HEDGE FUNDS AND HEDGE FUND STRATEGIES
Sandy Chen
INTEGRATED BANK ANALYSIS AND VALUATION
A Practical Guide to the ROIC Methodology
Frances Cowell
RISK-BASED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT IN PRACTICE 2nd Edition
Jawwad Farid
MODELS AT WORK
A Practitioner’s Guide to Risk Management
Guy Fraser-Sampson
INTELLIGENT INVESTING
A Guide to the Practical and Behavioural Aspects of Investment Strategy
Michael Hunseler
CREDIT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
A Practitioner’s Guide to the Active Management of Credit Risks
Ross K. McGill
US WITHHOLDING TAX
Practical Implications of QI and FATCA
David Murphy
OTC DERIVATIVES, BILATERAL TRADING AND CENTRAL CLEARING
An Introduction to Regulatory Policy, Trading Impact and Systemic Risk
Gianluca Oricchio
PRIVATE COMPANY VALUATION
How Credit Risk Reshaped Equity Markets and Corporate Finance Valuation Tools
Andrew Sutherland and Jason Court
THE FRONT OFFICE MANUAL
The Definitive Guide to Trading, Structuring and Sales

--- Página 3 ---
Michael C. S. Wong and Wilson F. C. Chan (editors)
INVESTING IN ASIAN OFFSHORE CURRENCY MARKETS
The Shift from Dollars to Renminbi
Global Financial Markets series
Series Standing Order ISBN: 978–1–137–32734–5
You can receive future titles in this series as they are published by placing a standing order. Please 
contact your bookseller or, in case of difficulty, write to us at the address below with your name 
and address, the title of the series and the ISBN quoted above.
Customer Services Department, Macmillan Distribution Ltd, Houndmills, Basingstoke, 
Hampshire RG21 6XS, England.

--- Página 4 ---
Liquidity Risk 
 Managing Funding and Asset Risk 
 Second  Edition 
 Erik  Banks

--- Página 5 ---
© Erik Banks 2014 
 All rights reserved. No reproduction, copy or transmission of this 
 publication may be made without written permission. 
 No portion of this publication may be reproduced, copied or transmitted 
 save with written permission or in accordance with the provisions of the 
 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, or under the terms of any licence 
 permitting limited copying issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency, 
 Saffron House, 6–10 Kirby Street, London EC1N 8TS. 
 Any person who does any unauthorized act in relation to this publication 
 may be liable to criminal prosecution and civil claims for damages. 
 The author has asserted his right to be identified  as the author of this work 
in accordance with the Copyright, Designs  and Patents Act 1988. 
 First edition 2005 
Second edition published 2014 by
 PALGRAVE MACMILLAN 
 Palgrave Macmillan in the UK is an imprint of Macmillan Publishers Limited, 
registered in England, company number 785998, of Houndmills, Basingstoke, 
 Hampshire RG21 6XS. 
 Palgrave Macmillan in the US is a division of St Martin’s Press LLC, 
 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10010. 
 Palgrave Macmillan is the global academic imprint of the above companies 
 and has companies and representatives throughout the world. 
 Palgrave® and Macmillan® are registered trademarks in the United States, 
 the United Kingdom, Europe and other countries 
 This book is printed on paper suitable for recycling and made from fully 
 managed and sustained forest sources. Logging, pulping and manufacturing 
 processes are expected to conform to the environmental regulations of the 
 country of origin. 
 A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library. 
 A catalog record for this book is available from the Library of Congress. 
ISBN 978-1-349-47692-3      ISBN 978-1-137-37440-0 (eBook)
DOI 10.1057/9781137374400
Softcover reprint of the hardcover 2nd edition 2014 978-1-137-37439-4

--- Página 6 ---
v
 Contents 
 List of Figures 
 xi 
 List of Tables 
 xii 
 List of Boxes 
 xiii 
 Preface to the 2nd Edition 
 xiv 
 About the Author 
 xvi 
 List of Abbreviations 
 xvii 
 Part I  Elements of Corporate Liquidity 
 1  Liquidity Risk Defined 
 3 
 Definitions of Liquidity Risk 
 3 
 Liquidity, Risk, and the Corporation 
 7 
 Market Risk, Credit Risk, and Liquidity Risk 
 13 
 Liquidity risk and the financial crisis of 2007–2008 
 14 
 The role of liquidity in the crisis 
 14 
 Lessons from the crisis 
 20 
 Overview of the Book 
 22 
 2  Liquidity and Financial Operations 
 24 
 Liquidity Operating Requirements 
 24 
 General Approaches to Liquidity Management 
 27 
 Financial Imperatives 
 28 
 External Requirements 
 29 
 The Liquidity Risk/Return Trade-Off 
 31 
 Liquidity Profiles Across Industries 
 33 
 Financial institutions 
 34 
 Non-financial service companies 
 40 
 Capital-intensive companies 
 41 
 Municipalities and sovereigns 
 42 
 Endogenous Versus Exogenous Liquidity 
 43 
 3  Sources of Liquidity 
 48 
 Sources of Asset Liquidity 
 49 
 Liquid assets 
 49 
 Cash and marketable securities 
 49

--- Página 7 ---
vi 
Contents
Receivables 
 52 
Inventories 
 52 
 Fixed assets and intangibles 
 54 
 Fixed assets 
 54 
 Intangibles 
 55 
 Sources of Funding Liquidity 
 55 
 Short-term funding markets 
 57 
 Commercial paper, Euro commercial paper 
 57
 Short-term bank facilities 
 57 
Payables 
 58 
 Deposits and repurchase agreements 
 58 
 Medium/long-term funding markets 
 60 
 Medium-term notes and Euronote facilities 
 60 
 Funding agreements and GICs 
 60 
 Long-term bonds 
 61 
 Loans 
 62 
 Equity capital 
 63 
 Sources of Off-Balance Sheet Liquidity 
 64 
 Securitization 
 65 
 Contingent financings 
 66 
 Leases 
 67 
 Derivatives 
 68 
 Amalgamating Liquidity Sources 
 71 
 Part II  Liquidity Problems 
 4  Funding Liquidity Risk 
 77 
 Sources of Funding Liquidity Risk 
 78 
 Unpredictable cash flows 
 78 
 Corporations 
 79 
Financial institutions 
 81 
 Unfavourable legal or regulatory actions 
 83 
 Mismanagement 
 84 
 Negative perceptions/market actions 
 84 
 Exogenous Considerations 
 85 
 The Nature of Funding Problems 
 87 
 Rollover problems 
 87 
 Lack of market access 
 
 88 
 Commitment withdrawal 
 89 
 Excessive concentrations 
 90 
 The effects of funding liquidity risk 
 91 
 5  Asset Liquidity Risk 
 93 
 Sources of Asset Liquidity Risk 
 96

--- Página 8 ---
Contents 
vii
 Exogenous Considerations 
 96 
 The Nature of Asset Problems 
 98 
 Lack of asset marketability 
 99 
 Lack of unencumbered assets 
 101 
 Excessive concentrations 
 102 
 Misvalued assets 
 103 
 Insufficient collateralization 
 105 
 The Effects of Asset Liquidity Risk 
 106 
 6  Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
 108 
 Joint Asset and Funding Risks 
 108 
 Problems 
 109 
 Causes 
 112 
 The Liquidity Spiral 
 113 
 Problems 
 113 
 Causes 
 115 
 Debt investors and banks 
 116 
Rating agencies 
 118 
Management reaction 
 119 
 Financial Distress 
 119 
 Contagion 
 120 
 7  Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
 122 
 Drexel Burnham Lambert (1990) 
 123 
 Askin Capital (1994) 
 126 
 Orange County (1994) 
 129 
 Long Term Capital Management (1998) 
 131 
 General American (1999) 
 135 
 Swissair (2001) 
 136 
 Enron (2001) 
 140 
 Northern Rock (2008) 
 
 144 
 Lehman Brothers (2008) 
 148 
 Part III  Managing Liquidity Risks 
 8  Measuring Liquidity Risk 
 155 
 Common Liquidity Measures 
 155 
 Liquidity ratios 
 157 
 Cash flow gaps 
 162 
 Financial instrument liquidity measures 
 168 
 Stress tests 
 173 
 Stress testing framework 
 175 
 Market parameters 
 176 
 Liquidation horizon 
 178

--- Página 9 ---
viii 
Contents
 Cash flows 
 178 
 Asset disposals, secured funding and haircuts 
 179 
 Unsecured funding 
 182 
 Covenants and terminations 
 183 
 Collateral 
 184 
 Currency exposures 
 185 
 Event risks and joint scenarios 
 185 
 9  Controlling Liquidity Risk 
 188 
 Governance Structure 
 188 
 Liquidity risk mandate 
 191 
 Risk plan 
 191 
 Financial and human resources 
 192 
 Management Duties and Responsibilities 
 194 
 Liquidity Risk Controls 
 196 
 Asset liquidity controls 
 197 
 Liquid and fixed asset limits 
 198 
 Liquid asset limits 
 199 
Collateral/pledging limits 
 202 
 Funding liquidity controls 
 204 
 Diversified funding limits 
 205 
Committed facility limits 
 207 
 Joint liquidity controls 
 210 
 Cash flow gap limits 
 210 
Balance sheet target limits 
 211 
Hybrid ratio limits 
 212 
 Off-balance sheet controls 
 212 
 Forward commitments and contingencies 
 213 
 Other safeguards 
 215 
 Defensive interval (Minimum survival period) 
 215 
Reserves 
 216 
Mark and model verification 
 216 
Penalties 
 217 
External relationship management 
 218 
 Liquidity Risk Monitoring 
 219 
 Asset and funding portfolios 
 220 
 Off-balance sheet commitments and contingencies 
 221 
 Forward balance sheet 
 221 
 Stress scenarios 
 221 
 General indicators 
 222 
 Monitoring goals 
 224 
 Technical capabilities 
 225

--- Página 10 ---
Contents 
ix
 10  Liquidity Crisis Management 
 227 
 Scope and Focus 
 227 
 Ex-Ante Market Access 
 231 
 Defensive Measures 
 232 
 Recentralization 
 232 
 Funding management 
 232 
 Prioritizing funding draw-downs 
 232 
Extending liability maturities 
 233 
Suspending cash flows 
 234 
 Asset management 
 235 
 Risk hedging 
 236 
 Communications 
 236 
 Invoking and Terminating the Program 
 237 
 Disaster Recovery 
 239 
 Testing the Plan 
 239 
 11  New Regulatory Initiatives 
 242 
 Basel III 
 243 
 New liquidity measures 
 243 
 Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 
 244 
 Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) 
 246 
 Monitoring liquidity risks 
 250 
 Dodd-Frank Act 
 252 
 Liquidity Consultation 
 253 
 Financial Services Authority’s Bipru 12 
 254 
 Solvency II and Other Insurance Regulations 
 257 
 12  Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity 
Risk Management 
 259 
 The Micro Role: Best Practices 
 260 
 Creating a sound governance framework 
 260 
 Implementing proper measures and reporting 
 261 
 Using tactical controls 
 262 
 Developing and implementing a crisis management process 
 263 
 Performing ongoing reviews 
 263 
 The Macro Role 
 263 
 Conducting regular inspections 
 265 
 Promoting competition 
 265 
 Avoiding fragmentation 
 266 
 Minimizing costs 
 266 
 Harmonizing accounting treatment 
 266 
 Reinforcing proper capital allocations 
 267 
 Providing selective lender of last resort support 
 267

--- Página 11 ---
x 
Contents
 Appendix: A Primer on Gap Management 
 270 
 Notes 
 280 
 Selected References 
 294 
 Index 
 297

--- Página 12 ---
xi
 List of Figures 
 1.1  A general taxonomy of risks 
 8 
 2.1  Corporate liquidity needs 
 27 
 2.2  Liquidity/return trade-off 
 33 
 2.3  Industry-based liquidity spectrum 
 43 
 3.1  Common sources of asset liquidity 
 56 
 3.2  Common sources of funding liquidity 
 63 
 3.3  Generic securitization 
 66 
 3.4  Common sources of off-balance sheet liquidity 
 69 
 3.5  Key sources of on- and off-balance sheet liquidity 
 70 
 3.6  Theoretical and actual liquidity sources for a 
securities firm 
 72 
 4.1  Generic statement of cash flows and possible sources of 
cash flow uncertainty 
 80 
 4.2  Funding liquidity risks 
 92 
 5.1  Sale price of concentrated position 
 103 
 5.2  Asset liquidity risks 
 107 
 6.1  The liquidity spiral 
 115 
 8.1  Common liquidity measurement techniques 
 157 
 8.2  Computation of the net funding requirement 
 163 
 8.3  Decomposition of the net funding requirement 
 164 
 8.4  Cash flow sources/uses by maturity bucket or duration 
 165 
 8.5  Net funding requirement 
 165 
 8.6  Generic stress test framework 
 177 
 9.1  Controlling liquidity risks 
 189 
 9.2  Fixed/liquid asset limits 
 199 
 9.3  Liquid asset limits 
 203 
 9.4  Collateral/pledging limits 
 204 
 9.5  Diversified funding limits 
 208 
 9.6  Committed facility limits 
 210 
 9.7  Forward commitment and contingency limits 
 214 
 9.8  Liquidity risk controls 
 218 
 9.9  Dimensions of liquidity monitoring 
 225 
 10.1  A liquidity crisis management program 
 240 
 11.1  Cash flows, CBC and the net liquidity position 
 251 
 12.1  Towards effective liquidity risk management 
 268 
A1.1 Interest rates, rate measures, and banking activities 
271
A1.2 Sample interest rate scenario 
279

--- Página 13 ---
xii
List of Tables 
 2.1  Costs and benefits to a firm under various 
liquidity scenarios 
 33 
 2.2  Examples of liability amount and timing variations 
 37 
 2.3  Examples of asset amount and timing variations 
 38 
 2.4 
 Examples of off-balance sheet amount and 
timing variations 
 38 
 8.1 
 Corporate liquidity ratios 
 160 
 8.2 
 Financial institution liquidity ratios 
 162 
 8.3 
 RSAs, RSLs, and interest rates 
 167 
 8.4a 
 Illustrative financial asset haircuts, normal market 
conditions 
 181 
 8.4b  Illustrative financial asset haircuts, extreme stress market 
conditions 
 181 
 8.5 
 Summary stress testing grid 
 187 
 9.1 
 The liquidity buffer, net cash outflows and 
the defensive interval 
 215 
 11.1 
 LCR HQLA factors 
 245 
 11.2  LCR cash outflow factors 
 247 
 11.3  LCR cash inflow factors 
 248 
 11.4  Available stable funding factors 
 249 
 11.5  Required stable funding factors 
 249 
A1.1 Sample duration calculation 
272
A1.2 Sample European bank balance sheet 
274
A1.3 Sample European bank balance sheet 2 
274
A1.4 Sample European bank balance sheet 3 
275
A1.5 Relationships between gap, rates and net interest income 
276
A1.6 Solution to increase/decrease asset/liability sensitivity 
276
A1.7 Sample option-adjusted gap 
279

--- Página 14 ---
xiii
 List of Boxes 
 1.1  Sample definitions of liquidity and liquidity risk 
 6 
 10.1  Summary funding draw-down road map 
 234

--- Página 15 ---
xiv
 Preface to the 2nd Edition 
 The world has undergone a fundamental transformation since the first 
edition of  Liquidity Risk was published in 2005. The financial crisis of 
2007–2008, which was so devastating in its reach and consequences, has 
transformed many aspects of the financial world and altered conven-
tional wisdom regarding prudent risk management. 
 Much has rightly been written on the crisis and the “lessons learned”. 
Many “post mortems” have been performed on failed and rescued insti-
tutions, new regulatory edicts and rules have been drafted and put into 
action, and new techniques of risk-taking and risk management have 
emerged. These are all important outcomes of any severe crisis. Perhaps 
most importantly, the financial crisis demonstrated that liquidity is the 
most vital component of a properly functioning financial system – it is 
the essential lifeblood of banks and other financial institutions and, by 
direct extension, the essential lifeblood of all other parts of the corporate 
and governmental world. The rapid disappearance of asset and funding 
liquidity during the crisis was extremely damaging: for many weeks, and 
even months, many of the traditional providers of liquidity were unable 
or unwilling to participate in their liquidity provision functions, mean-
ing that sovereign authorities, primarily national central banks, were 
called on to be the true “liquidity providers of last resort”. It is largely 
because of their actions that a true financial collapse was avoided, but not 
before many large institutions failed or had to be rescued, and not before 
many non-financial stakeholders were financially damaged. Indeed, 
the list of liquidity-related “casualties” is nothing short of remarkable: 
Washington Mutual, IndyMac, Countrywide, Lehman Brothers, Bear 
Stearns, Wachovia, Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, AIG, Northern Rock, RBS, 
Bradford and Bingley, Dexia, IKB, and Sachsen Landesbank, to name but 
a few, all suffered from severe liquidity problems. Little wonder, then, 
that liquidity risk management has re-entered the spotlight. 
 Given the transformational qualities of the most recent crisis, it seems 
timely and appropriate to bring the original material in Liquidity Risk up 
to date and to further expand its scope. The new edition reflects current 
thinking and ideas and provides a ready roadmap on new rules, regula-
tions and governance processes. 
 The new edition incorporates the following features:  An introductory 
1. 
overview of the financial crisis of 2007–2008, with a particular focus 
on the liquidity dimensions of the dislocation.

--- Página 16 ---
Preface to the 2nd Edition 
xv
 Updates throughout the book to reflect “liquidity lessons learned” 
2. 
from the crisis. 
 Several new case studies drawn from the financial sector to illustrate 
3. 
the sometimes devastating consequences of disappearing liquidity. 
 Expanded sections on stress testing and cash flow gaps and their 
4. 
importance in the risk management process. 
 A new chapter dedicated to liquidity-related regulatory changes in the 
5. 
financial sector that have been implemented (or which will be imple-
mented over the coming years), with a particular focus on Basel III, 
Dodd-Frank, Solvency II and the FSA’s prudential liquidity rulebook. 
 New concluding remarks on the future of liquidity risk management. 
6. 
 A new appendix on gap analysis and rate-sensitive assets and 
7. 
 liabilities.

--- Página 17 ---
xvi
 About the Author 
 Erik Banks has held senior risk management positions at various glo-
bal financial institutions in New York, London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and 
Munich over the past 27 years, including that of Managing Director and 
Chief Risk Officer at UniCredit Markets and Investment Banking, Partner 
and Chief Risk Officer of Bermuda reinsurer XL Capital’s derivatives sub-
sidiary, and Managing Director of Corporate Risk Management at Merrill 
Lynch. He is the author of more than 20 books on risk management, 
emerging markets, derivatives, alternative risk transfer, merchant bank-
ing, and electronic finance.

--- Página 18 ---
xvii
 List of Abbreviations 
 ABCP 
 asset backed commercial paper 
 ALCO 
 asset–liability committee 
 BCBS 
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
 BHC 
 bank holding company 
 BIS 
 Bank for International Settlements 
 bps 
 basis points 
 CAMEL S  capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, 
sensitivity to market risk
 CBC 
 counterbalancing capability 
 CEBS 
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors 
 CMO 
 collateralized mortgage obligation 
 CP 
 commercial paper 
 ECP 
 Euro commercial paper 
 ECU 
 European Currency Unit 
 EMR 
 enhanced mismatch report 
 EMTN 
 Euro medium-term note 
 EVT 
 extreme value theory 
 FINMA 
 Swiss Financial Markets Supervisory Authority 
 FRN 
 floating rate note  
 GAAP 
 generally accepted account principle 
 GIC 
 guaranteed investment contract 
 HQLA 
 high-quality liquid assets 
 IFRS 
 International Financial Reporting Standards 
 ILAS 
 investment-linked assurance schemes 
 IO 
 interest only  
 LAVAR 
 liquidity-adjusted value-at-risk 
 LBO 
 leveraged buyout 
 LC 
 liquidity committee 
 LCMT 
 liquidity crisis management team 
 LCR 
 liquidity coverage ratio 
 LR 
 liquidity risk 
 LTA 
 long-term assets 
 LTL 
 long-term liabilities 
 LTV 
 loan-to-value 
 MAC 
 material adverse change 
 MBS 
 mortgage-backed security 
 MTN 
 medium-term note

--- Página 19 ---
xviii 
List of Abbreviations
 NFR 
 net funding requirement 
 NIF 
 note issuance facility 
 NSFR 
 net stable funding ratio 
 OTC 
 over-the-counter 
 PD 
 probability of default 
 PO 
 principal only 
 RICO charges  Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization charges 
 RMBS 
 residential mortgage-backed securities  
 RSA 
 rate sensitive asset 
 RSF 
 required stable funding 
 RSL 
 rate sensitive liability 
 RUF 
 revolving underwriting facility 
 SIV 
 structured investment vehicle 
 SPE 
 special purpose entity 
 SPV 
 special purpose vehicle 
 STA 
 short-term assets 
 STL 
 short-term liabilities 
 VAR 
 value-at-risk

--- Página 20 ---
Part I 
 Elements of Corporate Liquidity

--- Página 21 ---
3
 1 
 Liquidity Risk Defined 
 Liquidity, which we define broadly as the availability of cash or equiva-
lent resources, is the lifeblood of every commercial and sovereign entity. 
Liquidity allows expected and unexpected obligations to be met when 
needed so that daily business affairs can proceed uninterrupted. In the 
absence of sufficient cash resources, activities may be jeopardized; more 
importantly, the probability of encountering severe financial distress 
increases. Indeed, as events of the past few years have demonstrated, the 
loss of liquidity and the onset of financial distress can often happen very 
quickly – in as little as 24 or 48 hours. Diligent and prudent management 
of liquidity is therefore a vital part of corporate financial management. 
 In this introductory chapter we begin our review of liquidity by exam-
ining definitions of liquidity risk and considering liquidity risk in relation 
to general corporate operations and other dimensions of financial expo-
sure. We then provide some background related to the liquidity charac-
teristics of the financial crisis of 2007–2008 along with universal “lessons 
learned.” We finish by outlining the key themes we intend to explore in 
the balance of the text. 
 Definitions of Liquidity Risk 
 It is well understood that the modern corporation must cope with a 
broad range of risks in the pursuit of business. The same is true, though 
sometimes to a lesser degree, of municipal, quasi-governmental and gov-
ernmental entities. Risk, which we define as any source of uncertainty 
impacting operations, comes in various forms. Although the taxonomy 
of risk is necessarily subjective, we begin by segregating risk into  financial 
risk , or the risk of loss arising from financial variables that impact bal-
ance sheet and off-balance sheet activities, and  operating risk , or the risk 
of loss arising from variables that impact the physical characteristics and 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 22 ---
4 
Liquidity Risk
operations of a business. While operating risks (including exposure to 
non-financial inputs/outputs, property and casualty losses, environmen-
tal liability, fiduciary liability, other legal liability, workers’ health, safety, 
and compensation, and so forth) are crucial to understand and manage, 
we shall not consider them in further detail, except in the context of how 
they might lead to cash flow pressures. Instead, we focus on financial 
risks, decomposing them first into three broad classes: market risk, credit 
risk and liquidity risk. 
 Market risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in the market 
prices/variables of a transaction or business.  Credit risk is the risk of loss 
due to failure by a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations. 
We can provide further granularity by considering financial exposure 
variables such as volatility risk, curve risk, directional risk, and basis risk 
(all subsets of market risk); and default risk, credit spread risk, contin-
gent credit risk, sovereign risk, and settlement risk (subsets of credit risk). 
Both dimensions are essential to proper corporate risk management, but 
detailed discussion is out of the scope of this book; further descriptions 
and explanations on these topics can be found in several of the references 
listed at the end of the book. We shall therefore limit our discussion of 
market and credit risks to areas where they directly impact aspects of our 
main focus: liquidity risk, the last of the three broad classes of financial 
risk. Although liquidity risk is sometimes classified as a subset of market 
risk, we believe that it is more helpful to consider the category separately. 
This ultimately allows for more accurate identification, measurement, 
management and monitoring. 
 If liquidity is the availability of cash or equivalents, then we can define 
 liquidity risk as the risk of loss arising from a lack of cash or equivalents or, 
more specifically, the risk of loss arising from an inability to obtain fund-
ing at economically reasonable levels, or sell 1 or pledge an asset at carrying 
prices, in order to cover an expected or unexpected obligation. Liquidity 
risk can therefore be regarded as the risk of economic loss suffered in 
attempting to secure the cash that is so vital to business operations. 
 We can also consider further classes of liquidity risk. It is helpful, for 
instance, to distinguish between funding (or liability) liquidity, asset 
liquidity, and joint liquidity, as well as liquidity mismatches and liquidity 
contingencies. 
 Funding liquidity focuses on the availability of unsecured liabilities 
that can be drawn on to create cash, including short-term and long-term 
debt facilities.  Funding liquidity risk is, therefore, the risk of loss stemming 
from an inability to access unsecured funding sources at an economically 
reasonable cost in order to meet obligations.

--- Página 23 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
5
 Asset liquidity, in contrast, centers on the availability of assets, such as 
marketable securities, inventories, receivables, and plant and equipment, 
which can be sold or pledged to generate cash.  Asset liquidity risk is thus 
the risk of loss arising from an inability to convert assets into cash for 
some expected value in order to meet obligations. 
 In certain instances asset and funding liquidity join together to produce 
an incremental degree of risk, which we term  joint asset/funding liquidity 
risk – the risk of loss that occurs when funding cannot be accessed and 
assets cannot be converted into cash in order to meet obligations. 
 We can also consider  liquidity mismatches . It is common, particularly in 
financial services, for maturities of cash-sensitive assets and liabilities to 
be individually and/or collectively mismatched, leading to divergent cash 
inflows and outflows over time.  Liquidity mismatch risk is therefore the 
risk of loss arising from the non-conformity of assets and liabilities. 
 Finally, it is important to mention the concept of  liquidity contingencies . 
Future known or unknown events, as well as cash-sensitive contingent 
transactions that are carried off-balance sheet, can have a meaningful 
impact on future cash requirements.  Liquidity contingency risk can thus 
be viewed as the risk of loss arising from future events or commitments 
which unfavorably reshape cash requirements. 
 We can also consider liquidity risk in the context of internal and exter-
nal forces. Some aspects of liquidity are specific to an institution, its 
financial position, and its scope of operations, and are largely or entirely 
within its direct control. The liquidity features of the firm are not neces-
sarily impacted by, nor do they impact, what happens in an industry or 
system context; this characteristic is commonly referred to as  endogenous 
liquidity . In some cases, however, liquidity has a broader reach, affecting 
many institutions in a sector, or contracts in a marketplace; this  exogenous 
liquidity is outside the direct control of any single institution, although 
in certain instances the actions of individual firms can contribute to the 
exogenous pressures. Whilst endogenous liquidity events can have a det-
rimental effect on an institution, exogenous liquidity events can affect 
multiple institutions simultaneously, injecting an element of systemic 
risk into the concept of liquidity risk. The financial crisis of 2007–2008, 
which we shall consider later in the book, serves as in important example 
of this phenomenon. 
 For additional perspectives and definitions on liquidity and liquidity 
risk, we summarize in Box 1.1 sample definitions from a number of regu-
lators and industry bodies. Some of these are specific to financial insti-
tutions, and others are applicable more generally to the marketplace at 
large.

--- Página 24 ---
6 
Liquidity Risk
 Box 1.1 Sample definitions of liquidity and liquidity risk 
 American Academy of Actuaries (USA) Liquidity is the ability to meet 
expected and unexpected demands for cash. Specifically, it is a company’s 
ability to meet the cash demands of its policy and contract holders without 
suffering any (or a very minimal) loss. The liquidity profile of a company is 
a function of both its assets and liabilities. Liquidity risk is inherent in the 
financial services industry, and one must understand, measure, monitor, and 
manage this risk. 
 (AAA, 2000, p. 4) 
 Bank for International Settlements (Supranational)  A liquid market is a 
market where participants can rapidly execute large volume transactions with 
a small impact on prices. 
 (BIS, 2000, p. 5) 
 Canadian Institute of Actuaries (Canada) Liquidity risk is the inability to 
meet financial commitments as they fall due through ongoing cash flow or 
asset sales at fair market value. Liquidation risk is the potential loss when the 
sale of an asset is urgently required, which may result in the proceeds being 
below fair market value. The loss is the difference between the fire sale price 
and the fair market value. 
 (CIA, 1996, p. 4) 
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (USA) Liquidity represents the abil-
ity to efficiently and economically accommodate a decrease in deposits and 
other liabilities, as well as fund increases in assets. A bank has liquidity poten-
tial when it has the ability to obtain sufficient funds in a timely manner, at a 
reasonable cost. 
 (FDIC, 1998, p. 1) 
 Financial Services Authority (UK)  Liquidity risk is the risk that a firm, though 
solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to it to 
meet its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive 
cost. It is a basic business risk faced to some degree by most (if not all) firms, 
though clearly it is more significant for some than others. 
 (FSA, 2003, p. 3) 
 HM Treasury (UK) Liquidity is the ease with which one financial claim can be 
exchanged for another as a result of the willingness of third parties to transact 
in the assets. 
 (HM Treasury, 1999) 
 International Association of Insurance Supervisors (Supranational) The 
risk emerging when the insurer fails to make investments (assets) liquid in a 
proper manner as its financial obligations fall due. 
 (IAIS, 2000) 
 International Organization of Securities Commissioners (Supranational) 
The risk to [an institution’s] ability to meet commitments in a timely and 
cost-effective manner while maintaining assets, and in the inability to pursue

--- Página 25 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
7
 profitable business opportunities and continue as a viable business due to a 
lack of access to sufficient cost-effective resources. 
 (IOSCO, 2002, p. 3) 
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (USA)  Liquidity risk is the risk to a 
bank’s earnings and capital arising from its inability to timely meet obligations 
when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. 
 (OCC, 2001, p.1) 
 Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (Canada) Liquidity is 
the ability of an institution to generate or obtain sufficient cash or its equiva-
lents in a timely manner at a reasonable price to meet its commitments as they 
fall due. 
 (OSFI, 1995, p. 2) 
 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (US) Liquidity is generally defined as 
the ability of a financial firm to meet its debt obligations without incurring 
unacceptably large losses. 
 (FRBSF, 2008, p.1) 
 Bank for International Settlements (Supranational) Liquidity is the ability 
of a bank to fund increases in assets and meet obligations as they come due, 
without incurring unacceptable losses. 
 (BIS, 2008, p.1.) 
 Figure 1.1 summarizes the general taxonomy of risks we have outlined 
before. 
 Liquidity, Risk, and the Corporation 
 A company requires liquidity in order to operate successfully. Liquidity 
can be viewed as the essential resource that permits a company to replace 
its liabilities, meet contractual obligations, and fund growth, all at a 
reasonable price, as and when needed. Liquid resources allow planned 
principal and interest payments; supplier, customer or lease payments; 
committed capital investments; dividends; and other obligatory cash 
flows to be met on schedule. Equally important, liquidity allows unan-
ticipated obligations to be met with ease and at a reasonable economic 
cost. This is important because cash flow surprises are quite common in 
the corporate world: a company might be called on to make emergency 
payments to suppliers, provide customer restitution in the event of prod-
uct problems, acquire a competitor when a sudden opportunity arises, or 
quickly repay contingent obligations when a lender or investor exercises a 
repayment option. Since unanticipated obligations cannot, by definition, 
be predicted with any real precision, a company must maintain access to 
enough resources to cover such eventualities.

--- Página 26 ---
8 
Liquidity Risk
 Failure to meet expected or unexpected payments on a timely basis can 
have serious ramifications. In particular, when a company cannot cover its 
obligations, it might jeopardize access to external sources of funding and 
become a forced seller of assets at unfavorable prices; it might also dam-
age its reputation in the marketplace, create investor and creditor unease, 
and attract unwanted scrutiny from regulators and rating agencies. Any of 
these events can lead to instances of financial distress, some of which can 
culminate in bankruptcy. A company might appear to be perfectly sound 
from a capitalization perspective (possessing sufficient capital and reasona-
ble leverage), but if it lacks the cash to meet obligations, it might actually be 
forced into default. Preventing such an event through active management 
of liquid resources is thus powerful motivation for a firm’s leadership. 
Corporate risks
Systemic
liquidity risks
Financial risks
Operating risks
Market risks
Credit risks
Liquidity risks
Non-financial
input/output risks
Property and
casualty risks
Liability risks
Exogenous asset
liquidity risks
Exogenous funding
liquidity risks
Asset liquidity 
risks (endogenous)
Funding liquidity
risks (endogenous)
Joint asset/funding
liquidity risks
 Figure 1.1   A general taxonomy of risks

--- Página 27 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
9
 Liquidity is also necessary in order to fund asset growth. Although 
capital is the essential ingredient in long-term investment, expansion, 
and research and development, liquid resources make possible the ini-
tial and periodic payments that are necessary to put plans into motion. 
Since companies depend on growth to build enterprise value, an ability 
to properly finance such expansion is imperative. 
 Endogenous liquidity risk can arise for a number of reasons, as we shall 
note in subsequent chapters. Broadly speaking, liquidity risks are induced 
by operating risks, credit and market risks, management/reputational 
problems, and legal/regulatory/compliance difficulties. Actual exposure 
and risk of loss can intensify dramatically when several of these forces 
are combined. Operating risks, including disruptions in daily business 
flows (such as sourcing, acquisition, extraction, transportation, and so 
forth) can impact cash flows and generate liquidity losses. Although the 
prudent company will typically have some type of pre-loss financing in 
place – through insurance, contingent capital or funding, or other forms 
of risk mitigation – access might be delayed, or coverage might prove 
inadequate. Those that lack any pre-loss financing at all can face even 
more severe problems. 
 Credit risks can lead to liquidity problems if a counterparty fails to 
perform on a contracted transaction, such as a derivative or loan. The 
party (perhaps a bank or another company) expecting its counterparty to 
supply a cash flow will not receive what it should and might experience 
a liquidity deficit as a result. Market risks can similarly create losses in a 
firm’s trading and investment portfolio, leading again to a cash flow short-
fall. Although this mainly impacts companies following mark-to-market 
accounting policies, it can also affect companies that have experienced a 
permanent impairment in asset value. Management, reputational, regula-
tory, and compliance problems can also cause, or intensify, liquidity risk. 
A firm that has damaged its reputation through particular behaviors (such 
as financial mismanagement, fraud, or product liability/recall) might lose 
customers and business revenues, causing investors and creditors to re-
evaluate their willingness to supply funds. Regulatory sanctions, lawsuits, 
or other forms of legal action or penalty can exacerbate the situation and 
create even more pressures through forced compensatory payments. 
 Exogenous forces, such as a systemic market dislocation, a cyclical credit 
crunch, or a sovereign event (such as capital controls, asset expropriation, 
or a debt moratorium), can also play a role in firm-specific and sector 
liquidity pressures. The modern corporate world is not always defined 
by stable economic and financial conditions. Even in an era of sophis-
ticated products, markets, and conduits, leading-edge computational 
processes, deregulation, competition, and external and self-regulatory

--- Página 28 ---
10 
Liquidity Risk
oversight, market stability cannot be guaranteed – meaning that the 
influence of external forces on liquidity access must always be consid-
ered. This becomes particularly critical during periods of economic weak-
ness: regional or global economic slowdowns, credit deterioration, and 
real asset depreciation can intensify liquidity problems at the micro and 
macro levels. 
 Although certain regulations exist to help dampen the possibility 
of large-scale illiquidity, they are not foolproof – the financial crisis of 
2007–2008 demonstrated that with resounding force. (In fact, we shall 
note later in the book instances where regulatory directives have actu-
ally intensified liquidity risks.) We can consider several basic examples 
of external liquidity pressures. For instance, if the banking sector is suf-
fering from an excess of bad loans and reducing its corporate lending, 
individual companies (including those that are good credits) might have 
difficulty accessing or renegotiating debt facilities on favorable terms, 
leading to an increase in the cost of funding and inducing liquidity-re-
lated losses. If the global equity or fixed income markets are unstable, 
causing forced panic selling into thin trading volume, the prices of assets 
might plunge dramatically. Companies needing to sell or pledge assets in 
order to secure liquidity will be doing so under very unfavorable market 
circumstances, again suffering losses. Liquidity-related losses can there-
fore come from external and internal sources. Although the degree of 
intensity can vary by firm, industry, country, and market, the specter of 
loss is always present. 
 The nature of liquidity risk and risk management is, of course, indus-
try-specific. Although companies in all industries must take account of 
liquidity, some must focus more heavily on active liquidity management 
than others. This is true when the functions they perform and businesses 
they run are based on accepting and providing liquidity or transforming 
the maturity characteristics of a transaction. For instance, financial insti-
tutions essentially act as liquidity conduits; they feature fluid and often 
unpredictable assets, liabilities, and contingencies that must be revalued 
every day. They also act as maturity transformers, synthetically convert-
ing short-term assets and liabilities into longer-term ones, and vice-versa, 
for their own accounts and on behalf of their clients. This means that 
they must devote considerable effort to managing the internal liquidity 
process as precisely as possible. The collective balance sheet of the finan-
cial sector – which includes banks, securities firms, broker/dealers, insur-
ers, and asset management companies – is characterized by a high degree 
of liquid and transferable assets (and very little in the way of fixed assets), 
a large amount of short-term funding (which may be volatile), and sig-
nificant off-balance sheet contingencies.

--- Página 29 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
11
 Industrial companies hold a much greater portion of their assets in 
inventory, property, plant, and equipment – the semi-fixed and fixed 
assets used to create computers, mobile phones, cars, jet engines, high 
definition TVs, steel bars, and other durable and non-durable goods. 
They allocate a smaller percentage of their balance sheets to short-term 
assets and short-term liabilities, and are far less active in off-balance sheet 
transactions than their financial counterparts. In addition, most follow 
accounting conventions that allow the bulk of their operations to be 
valued at the lower of cost or market value, meaning they may have no 
need to fund any losses or shortfalls that might arise through use of the 
mark-to-market accounting process. As a result, such companies tend to 
place somewhat less emphasis on the daily, active management of liquid-
ity risk – though the financial crisis of 2007–2008 has caused many to 
revisit the issue. 
 Within the extremes of the financial and industrial sectors lies non-
financial service companies, including those focused on transportation, 
retailing, hospitality, entertainment, beverages, foodstuffs, and so on. 
Their assets are not as liquid as those of financial institutions, but most 
carry a reasonably high proportion of inventories, receivables, payables, 
and short-term funding, and they may also be active in off-balance sheet 
transactions. They are more likely than industrial firms to employ an 
active approach to liquidity management. 
 Municipalities and sovereigns must also manage their liquidity care-
fully, balancing inflows from taxes, bond issues, and grants with a variety 
of outflows, including those related to infrastructure, public safety, edu-
cation, and transportation. 
 Since it is known that cross-industry differences exist, it is no surprise 
that each industry takes a different approach to the liquidity risk analysis 
and management process. While it is tempting to say that active liquid-
ity risk management is most important for financial institutions – and in 
some respects it is, because financial institutions are liquidity providers to 
all other industries and are subject to greater systemic pressures – liquidity 
risk can prove devastating for firms from a range of non-financial indus-
tries. It should not be considered to be of “secondary importance” in the 
management of corporate affairs. Indeed, some large non-financial corpo-
rations have discovered just how critical is access to liquidity, as we shall 
discover later in the book. While we shall devote a portion of this book to 
considering liquidity risk for financial institutions, much of our discussion 
is equally appropriate and relevant for the corporate treasurers and CFOs 
running non-financial service and industrial companies, and for govern-
ment officials managing sovereign/municipal cash flows. The need for an 
adequate supply of cash resources crosses industry boundaries.

--- Página 30 ---
12 
Liquidity Risk
 Allowing for the obvious differences that can arise as a result of indus-
try or sector specialization, a company generally attempts to manage 
liquidity through its assets and liabilities, and by taking account of its 
off-balance sheet activities. Although we shall explore this topic in detail 
in subsequent chapters, we introduce several key thoughts at this point. 
 After taking account of net cash inflows from operations, funding 
liquidity is the traditional domain of liquidity risk management – it is con-
sidered to be the “first line of defense” in meeting obligations. Effective 
funding liquidity management is based on determining how the firm’s 
primary funding sources – from the most committed, reliable, and stable, 
to the most volatile and unpredictable – can be used to meet demands. 
Indeed, funding remains the mainstay of many corporate liquidity risk 
management programs, particularly for firms operating outside of the 
financial sector. Assets, however, are an integral part of the liquidity risk 
process. Management of asset liquidity is based on understanding how 
assets can be used to supplement the cash position generated through 
core operations and funding. The process is based on analyzing the com-
position of the primary asset accounts to determine how much cash value 
they might yield, and understanding the extent and value of any unen-
cumbered assets that can be used as collateral in secured financing trans-
actions that generate cash. Off-balance sheet activities have also received 
much greater attention in the liquidity process over the past decade. 
Off-balance sheet business can take many forms, including loan commit-
ments, guarantees, contingencies, leases, and payments/receipts under 
derivative transactions. 2 Since these contracts may translate into real cash 
inflows and outflows, they must form part of any liquidity management 
program. Indeed, to be comprehensive and accurate, liquidity risk man-
agement must be viewed across all three dimensions. 
 It is also important to note that at least two strategic considerations 
arise in any discussion of liquidity risk. First, companies typically operate 
on the basis of a defined business strategy, which dictates which business 
lines, markets, clients and/or products will be pursued. The development 
of a liquidity plan must follow from the definition of a business strategy, 
and not vice-versa. While the liquidity plan (such as one which defines 
liquidity risk tolerance, funding mix, asset composition, and so forth) will 
provide controls at the margin, it cannot be the driving force in defining 
the business of a company. 
 Second, companies must optimize their operations properly. If liquid-
ity is so important, then an argument can be made to direct more assets 
into truly liquid instruments, and/or to arrange liabilities that are either 
very long-term in nature or absolutely committed. Each of these actions 
carries a cost – either a lower return on earning assets or a higher cost of

--- Página 31 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
13
funding. For companies seeking to maximize enterprise value, such costs 
may be sub-optimal. For those seeking some form of ex-ante “liquidity 
insurance protection” the costs may be perfectly justifiable. Accordingly, 
weighing likely liquidity needs (and making some allowance for a stress 
scenario) against the resources that are actually needed to operate a busi-
ness on value-maximizing principles is a vital part of corporate strategy. 
 Market Risk, Credit Risk, and Liquidity Risk 
 We have indicated above that the broad class of financial risks – market, 
credit, and liquidity risks – is often considered jointly. This is particularly 
true of market risk, which is sometimes said to include liquidity risk as a 
specific subset. 3 As we explore the theme of liquidity risk, it is important 
to consider how and why these risks are related, and how effective man-
agement of one can affect the others. 
 Market risk, or the risk of loss due to adverse changes in the mar-
ket prices/variables of a transaction or business, has a direct impact on 
a firm’s cash inflows and outflows. Market risk positions that produce 
realized or unrealized gains create cash, while those generating losses 
absorb cash and require funding. Furthermore, the actual amount of 
liquidity characterizing an asset, liability, or off-balance sheet contract 
has a direct bearing on its value. For instance, the more liquid an asset 
is (that is, the more readily saleable at its carrying value), the greater its 
worth (all other things equal), and the more rapidly it can be sold with-
out affecting the bid–offer spread. Thus, an asset with a small amount 
of market risk will generate cash with greater ease than an asset with 
considerable market risk. 
 Credit risk is the risk of loss due to failure by a counterparty to perform 
on its contractual obligations. A safe credit risk is one that performs as 
expected and, where relevant, provides a firm with a planned cash flow; a 
poor credit risk is one that either delays or defaults on its obligations, cre-
ating a cash flow disruption. Although virtually all firms are exposed to 
some amount of credit risk, financial institutions, which are in the busi-
ness of extending credit risk through lending, bond underwriting, securi-
ties trading, and securities warehousing, are particularly susceptible to 
problems – especially if they are not diligent in applying proper credit 
standards. Indeed, many global bank failures of the past few decades have 
been attributable to problems arising from the combined effects of credit 
risk and liquidity risk. 
 A firm that is highly exposed to market and/or credit risk is almost 
certainly exposed to a great deal of liquidity risk. The very value and 
performance of the market and credit risk positions will determine the

--- Página 32 ---
14 
Liquidity Risk
firm’s own liquidity profile, and indicate whether it will have the liquid 
resources it expects (at the value it expects) or experience a shortfall and 
be forced to sustain a liquidity-induced loss. The firm that suffers a very 
large loss on its market risk portfolios may have to finance the resulting 
shortfall at a higher cost or through the disposal of assets on less favo-
rable terms – crystallizing a loss. The firm that suffers an unexpected 
credit loss will have to cover the loss of anticipated cash inflows through 
similar means, again experiencing a shortfall. Given these relationships, 
the management of liquidity risk must be considered in the context of 
broader financial risks. A firm with significant market and credit risks 
cannot expect to have a small amount of liquidity risk, while a firm with 
negligible market and credit risks may indeed be exposed to a smaller 
amount of liquidity risk. 
 Liquidity risk and the financial crisis of 2007–2008 
 The role of liquidity in the crisis 
 With some preliminary facts on liquidity risk now in hand, it is helpful to 
tie directly into “real life” actual practice by taking a brief look at the finan-
cial crisis of 2007–2008, along with some of the lessons learned. We will 
leverage on this discussion throughout the book, particularly in Part III. 
 The recent financial crisis, the latest in a long series of market dislo-
cations, was certainly one of the costliest in terms of both direct and 
indirect losses (i.e., actual financial losses as well as broader economic 
contraction). A great deal has already been written on the causes of the 
crisis, from the original housing bubble built atop cheap credit and sub-
prime mortgages, to lax regulation and credit rating agency work, to poor 
risk management at many global financial institutions: each element 
played a role in fomenting and transmitting the crisis. Accompanying 
this complex series of causes were two other notable characteristics: speed 
and breadth. Many institutions (and regulators) were caught off guard by 
the speed at which the problems swept through the financial sector and 
the global economy, and most were surprised by the actual breadth of the 
contagion. To be sure, the market environment prior to 2007 looked rea-
sonably benign. Asset markets were liquid and well bid, corporate balance 
sheets were funded at low cost (particularly at the short-end) and corpo-
rate earnings were generally robust. Little wonder, then, that so many 
institutions were caught by surprise when the global markets turned in 
early to mid-2007. 
 While the crisis featured significant problems with, and mishandling 
of, both credit and market risks, it also reflected a very poor under-
standing of liquidity risks, how they behave and how they need to be

--- Página 33 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
15
managed.  Ex post analysis has revealed that liquidity pressures were – and 
are – intensified by global markets with rapidly shifting capital flows, a 
new catalog of sometimes complex financial instruments, and an operat-
ing environment characterized by dynamic economic and financial con-
ditions. The crisis also demonstrated that the maturity transformation 
business carried out by banks (and non-bank financial institutions) was 
pivotal to the liquidity problems that ultimately surfaced. Indeed, many 
institutions were funding their long-term mortgage loans, commercial 
loans and securities holdings with very cheap short-term funds, creating 
gaps that were susceptible to market dislocations. When refinancing was 
no longer possible (or possible only at a relatively high cost of funds), 
rapid deleveraging occurred, often involving long-term assets that were 
not as liquid as once believed; many banks and institutional investors 
held in their asset portfolios a great deal of structured credit and mort-
gage investments that were difficult to value and, ultimately, difficult to 
sell – creating losses and more liquidity pressures. In addition, at least 
some banks were forced to bring back on to their balance sheet securi-
tization conduits (some containing subprime mortgages) that could no 
longer access the commercial paper market; we consider this point below. 
Finally, not all institutions had contingency funding plans in place prior 
to the crisis, and not all of them enacted plans forcefully and rapidly 
when needed; this left them very vulnerable as funding sources started 
becoming scarce. 
 Most firms underestimated the scope and scale of the crisis because 
they had not stress-tested their portfolios sufficiently and linked the 
results into business and risk strategies or contingency funding plans. 
In fact, the standard operating procedure within the international 
banking community seems to have been one of “benign neglect”: most 
assumed that liquidity was, and would remain, cheap and plentiful, and 
few believed that a catastrophe was either imminent or would move so 
swiftly. The result, in some cases, was insufficient liquid resources to deal 
with an escalating crisis. Consider, as just one example, the case of US 
investment bank Bear Stearns: though its liquidity buffer in early 2008 
was its largest ever, it proved completely insufficient when lenders and 
other creditors began pulling their credit lines – and as management 
failed to enact properly a crisis plan and dispel rumors of difficulties. 
The bank lost 80% of its buffer in just two days and was forced into an 
acquisition by JP Morgan. 
 Of course, it wasn’t just financial institutions that missed the looming 
crisis: financial regulators/supervisors were caught off guard as well. Most 
of them failed to spot the warning signs, and none had really thought to 
address the issue of liquidity risks in a formal fashion before the onset of

--- Página 34 ---
16 
Liquidity Risk
the crisis. Consider that the Bank for International Settlements, as central 
bank of the central banks and the leading authority on global regulation, 
did not publish its first comprehensive paper on liquidity risk manage-
ment challenges until the first quarter of 2007 (its previous paper on the 
topic was dated 2000) – the comments, which were concepts of potential 
best practices rather than formal regulations, came too late for financial 
institutions to consider. 
 A very notable feature of the crisis was the rapid “drying up” of the 
global commercial paper, repurchase agreement (repo) and short-term 
note markets, which created financial and corporate funding pressures; 
it became challenging, by early 2008, to arrange short-term financing on 
a stable, economic basis. Use of these key financing markets had grown 
steadily throughout the decade, and many financial and corporate insti-
tutions had come to depend heavily on such short-term funds to support 
their balance sheets. The “shadow banking system,” including conduits, 
structured investment vehicles (SIVs), funds, and other special purpose 
entities, also financed themselves through short-term liabilities. Consider, 
for instance, that these entities accounted for $1.3 trillion of CP outstand-
ings in 2003, and nearly $2.3 trillion just prior to the crisis; similarly, 
they had $1.3 trillion of repos in 2003 and $2.8 trillion four years later. 
It is not difficult to imagine what happens when portions of the CP and 
repo markets suddenly dry up: assets being supported by such funding 
must either be liquidated or pledged against other financings, either of 
which creates systemic instabilities (e.g., falling asset prices in “offered 
only” markets, rising funding costs, and so on). In effect, many of the 
liquidity provision, maturity transformation and arbitrage activities of 
banks and shadow banks were arranged during “calmer times” without 
the proper liquidity backstops. 
 Freezing up of the interbank market eventually followed, placing even 
greater strain on bank balance sheets. In fact, the interbank market, rep-
resenting the borrowing and lending activities between banks, ceased to 
function properly during the crisis as banks began to lose trust in one 
another. The extent of unrealized losses on asset portfolios and the gen-
eral opacity of bank balance sheets, the fragile state of funding markets 
and the uncertainty of risk portfolios meant banks had to be conservative 
in their extension of credit to others in the sector. Since most major inter-
national banks rely quite heavily on such wholesale funding activities 
to conduct business and manage their liquidity profiles, the sudden loss 
of market access was troubling. Spreads in the interbank market moved 
from a normal +10 basis points (bps) to +50 bps during 2007 and +100 bps 
and more during the Lehman crisis in late 2008 (with the liquidity risk 
component comprising the bulk of that spread). 4 Global spreads did not

--- Página 35 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
17
begin to recede until 2009 (but remained high in the Eurozone through 
2010–2011 as the credit-driven Euro crisis continued to unfold). 
 With banks unable to borrow from their traditional sources, they were 
left with two solutions: constraining lending to companies and individu-
als and deleveraging their balance sheets by selling assets – into an imbal-
anced (e.g., offered only) and increasingly illiquid market, which caused 
downward price gaps and attendant losses. Pulling back on credit was a 
key element in the global recession that soon made its way through the 
world’s economies, while selling assets (particularly the above mentioned 
structured securities) into a thinly traded market created financial losses 
and added further to liquidity imbalances. 
 As indicated, securitization activities played a key role in escalating 
liquidity pressures. In normal times the process of originating loans, plac-
ing them into a conduit, and then securitizing the conduit and selling 
the resulting securities to end investors has been an efficient risk transfer 
mechanism. In the years before the crisis, conduits (and associated struc-
tured investment vehicles) containing long-term mortgage assets were 
typically financed with inexpensive short-term funds, creating a massive 
liquidity gap and significant vulnerabilities once the short-term market 
dried up. When this model broke down in mid-2007 (as investors became 
increasingly nervous about the underlying mortgage collateral), banks 
suffered heavily: many were forced to absorb unsold conduit assets back 
on to their balance sheets and fund them through any means possible, 
intensifying financing pressures. In addition, those which held unsold 
positions in past deals found themselves writing down the value of com-
pletely illiquid assets of increasingly questionable value. 
 Another notable feature of this particular crisis was greater incidence 
of the so-called silent bank run. While the classic “bank run” – with 
queues of retail depositors lining outside of a troubled bank to withdraw 
money – can be disconcerting, an even more damaging phenomenon is 
the silent run. The silent run is pernicious because it happens away from 
the spotlight, generally over a short time frame. In the silent run, deposi-
tors, primarily institutional/wholesale, do not withdraw their funds at 
a moment’s notice (as retail depositors might) but simply elect not to 
roll over their obligations when they come due: the bank suffering from 
lack of rollovers finds liquidity ebbing away in a very discreet, but very 
real, manner. Consider that during this crisis several large banks suffered 
heavily from such silent runs, including Washington Mutual, Wachovia 
and Dexia, among others. In all instances, the silent runs and resultant 
loss of liquidity led to last-minute acquisitions or bailouts. 
 With interbank lending grinding to a halt – and with eventual loss 
of additional funding through prime broker customer balances and

--- Página 36 ---
18 
Liquidity Risk
tri-party repos – it is perhaps not surprising to note that the world’s 
central banks were finally forced to step in as major providers of liquid-
ity, allowing significant repo transactions (with a very broad range of 
collateral), opening their discount window operations to a wide range 
of institutions, and arranging for special credit facilities to enhance 
market liquidity and reinforce capital levels (e.g., $900 billion term 
auction facility, $150 billion+ primary dealer credit facility, $700 bil-
lion troubled asset relief program, $1 trillion term asset-backed loan 
facility, $1.6 trillion CP funding facility, £850 billion system liquidity, 
amongst many other schemes). In the aftermath of Lehman’s collapse, 
these efforts intensified further, with most central bank and national 
supervisory authorities electing to provide depositors with unlimited 
deposit guarantees (in order to make them comfortable keeping their 
funds with banks, thus avoiding massive, and potentially destructive, 
liquidity-induced bank runs) and, in the case of large “too big to fail” 
institutions, government-led equity recapitalizations (and in some cases 
outright nationalizations). Had they not acted to stem the growing loss 
of confidence in the global banking system, the results would have 
undoubtedly been catastrophic. The crisis had become so severe that 
liquidity and solvency problems had effectively merged. It is interesting 
to consider that in this crisis alone there were actual bank runs (e.g., 
deposit withdrawals), silent bank runs (e.g., non-renewal of maturity 
deposits) and “runs in the repo market” (e.g., non-renewal of repurchase 
agreements) at quite a number of large banking institutions around 
the world, including IndyMac, Northern Rock, Bradford and Bingley, 
Countrywide, Washington Mutual, Wachovia, Bear Stearns, Lehman 
Brothers, Merrill Lynch, AIG, and Dexia, among others. The liquidity 
problems faced by these, and others, was all too real. Even macro struc-
tures such as payment systems, clearinghouses, and settlement systems 
suffered problems, including volatility spikes, valuation challenges, vol-
ume issues, and even customer defaults. In more than a few instances 
clearinghouses and other central counterparty functions had to scram-
ble for their own liquidity to absorb temporary cash shortfalls coming 
from defaulting counterparties. Ultimately, refinancing capabilities 
from central banks proved an important mechanism in keeping these 
entities fully functional. 
 It is also worth mentioning that, although the crisis moved at times very 
quickly (in some cases claiming multiple institutions at about the same 
time, to wit September–October 2008), it was a protracted event with 
relative “peaks and valleys.” In fact, the financial sector went through 
18 months of very critical events and, though some of the more vulner-
able banks ostensibly had time to get their “houses in order” by raising

--- Página 37 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
19
additional financing, sourcing extra capital and repoing whatever assets 
they could, not all of them did. Consider that the first critical liquidity-
driven events appeared in August and September 2007 (e.g., Northern 
Rock, IKB), but it would be another 6 to 12 months before others suc-
cumbed to the same liquidity pressures (e.g., Bear Stearns, Lehman, Dexia, 
AIG, Wachovia, Merrill Lynch, and so on). The issue we must consider is 
why, given that relatively lengthy span of time, did not more institutions 
enact their contingency funding plans to shore up liquidity and capital? 
We might point to mismanagement, lack of belief that “the worst would 
happen,” faith that some form of systemic bailout would be arranged, or 
perhaps some combination of the three. 
 The involvement of central banks in times of crisis is not, of course, 
unique. Some have played a key role in previous dislocations, attempting 
to restore confidence and stability through decisive actions. But their role 
in this crisis was very extensive and without precedent. Central banks 
certainly have a duty to provide liquidity to the marketplace in order 
to keep the financial system stable and healthy and to keep economies 
growing. The broader issue, and the one that became very obvious during 
the crisis, was whether central banks should provide liquidity support 
to individual troubled institutions in order to stave off a deeper prob-
lem. Such support could be seen as going beyond the natural remit, and 
raises with it the perpetual “moral hazard” issue (i.e., encouraging bad 
behavior, such as excessive risk taking, knowing that there are no real 
consequences). In fact, any reasonable examination of the facts shows 
that central banks moved from the traditional role of liquidity suppliers 
to bailout architects – providing extra liquidity by accepting a wide range 
of collateral and maturities, but also providing capital-like bailout funds, 
including emergency loans, emergency capital, and so forth, ostensibly 
in an effort to prevent a deeper liquidity crisis. We may thus argue that 
the thin line between illiquidity and insolvency has to be considered 
in the context of the cost of moral hazard versus the cost of systemic 
disruption. 
 There were other liquidity-related features of this crisis, some of which 
reveal very clearly the nexus of credit, market and liquidity exposures. 
For instance, financial institutions (and others, including various classes 
of funds) held certain types of securities believed to be liquid – because 
they had  always been liquid in the past. Many held AAA-rated structured 
credit and mortgage assets in their liquidity portfolios simply because 
they were AAA; AAA was synonymous with high quality, high quality 
was synonymous with liquidity – both of which proved false in the final 
analysis. 5 Financial institutions (and regulators) believed that the inter-
bank market, the CP market, and the repo markets would work as they

--- Página 38 ---
20 
Liquidity Risk
always had worked – meaning many were funded short. In fact, many 
banks ran large asset-liability gaps, with heavy short-term liabilities sup-
porting long-term loans and securities. As we have already noted, many of 
the larger banks ran off-balance sheet conduits, SIVs, and SPEs – many of 
which had to be unwound or brought back on the balance sheet, absorb-
ing additional funding. Many banks had risk management processes that 
were unable to properly deal with liquidity risks; which failed to provide 
the stress linkages between markets, assets, and liquidity levels, or to pro-
vide a proper understanding of asset correlations; and which relied too 
heavily on inadequate models. Unfortunately, these problems were exac-
erbated by weak technology and data, rendering the most basic under-
standing of intraday cash and collateral positions virtually impossible. Of 
course, other external parties failed in a comprehensive understanding of 
liquidity risk and the potential dangers. Regulators and rating agencies, 
for instance, completely ignored and underestimated the importance of 
institutional or asset-specific liquidity and the speed at which both could 
disappear. 
 Lessons from the crisis 
 The post-mortems surrounding the financial crisis have dissected the 
problems and lessons learned in some detail, and most of the findings, 
with the benefit of hindsight, present no real surprises. Central to our 
theme is that liquidity is vital and mismanagement of liquidity can lead 
to financial distress, sometimes very quickly. Perhaps the only surprise is 
that the crisis didn’t happen sooner, and that it didn’t claim more insti-
tutional victims. And perhaps the only thing we know for certain is that 
the financial system generally, and individual firms specifically, will face 
another financial crisis at some future time. 
 So, how to deal with this vital issue? We shall consider ideas and solu-
tions in greater detail throughout the book, focusing on practical ideas. 
But, to begin introducing these lessons and solutions, let us here consider 
in summary form some of the working solutions put forth by regulators, 
credit rating agencies, sophisticated investors, bank directors and other 
stakeholders (with a reminder that we shall revisit them at greater length 
in subsequent chapters):
 Making sure that governance structures work and that employees 
 
●
throughout the firm have an appreciation of liquidity (and its poten-
tial benefits and damage) 
 Holding more capital in support of all risks generally 
 
●
 Creating a business strategy that properly and explicitly incorporates 
 
●
liquidity risks

--- Página 39 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
21
 Developing a liquidity risk appetite (or tolerance) that is compatible 
 
●
with the business strategy and available financial resources, and which 
is aligned with stakeholder expectations 
 Increasing the liquidity buffer generally, increasing the high quality 
 
●
component of the buffer specifically, and making greater use of collat-
eral and pre-committed financing (i.e., the “insurance premium” cost 
of securing liquidity) 
 Limiting the maturity transformation mechanism to levels that are 
 
●
consistent with a stated liquidity risk appetite 
 Ensuring that the most illiquid assets on the corporate balance sheet, as 
 
●
well as the haircuts on liquid assets, are financed with stable funding 
 Making sure stable funding sources are truly stable and that depend-
 
●
ency on volatile wholesale funding (regardless of market) is mini-
mized 
 Recognizing that market confidence is central to liquidity preservation 
 
●
and taking all necessary steps to ensure that confidence exists 
 Improving balance sheet transparency and expanding public disclo-
 
●
sure to instill confidence 
 Analyzing cash inflows and outflows (current and future) on a regular 
 
●
basis to be well aware of potential problems 
 Implementing meaningful stress tests – including those that are par-
 
●
ticularly severe and which can reveal areas of vulnerability, however 
improbable they may appear. 
 Improving the contingency planning process and the diversification 
 
●
of funding; preparing for the downside means recognizing that liquid-
ity providers are both credit and market sensitive, and likely to adjust 
behavior in the face of a dislocation 
 Enacting the contingency plan quickly and forcefully when it is 
 
●
needed 
 Regulatory supervisors also have additional responsibilities in this new 
world order. Specifically, they must be better prepared to monitor and 
take action with regard to deficient liquidity risk management practices 
at individual institutions, intervening before an idiosyncratic problem 
becomes a systemic problem. And they must be better able to cooperate 
across borders in order to halt liquidity-driven systemic crises before they 
spin out of control (as very nearly happened in September 2008). 
 Following the development of new rules and regulations, the creation 
of resolution/wind down authorities, the implementation of new govern-
ance and risk processes, and the rollout of new reporting and monitor-
ing across a range of risks – but especially liquidity risk – we must now 
consider whether the global financial system is safer. We might hope and

--- Página 40 ---
22 
Liquidity Risk
suppose so, but in fact a “real life test” is the only way to verify potential 
efficacy. Thus, the strength of the solutions derived from lessons learned 
will only be known for certain after the next major dislocation. 
 It is equally important to note that new regulations and governance 
processes can help control liquidity (and other) risks, but not eliminate 
the downside. Central banks, which played such an important role in the 
last crisis, will have a role to play in the future as lenders of last resort – 
for the market in its entirety, but possibly still in support of individual 
institutions (as the “too big to fail” question has not yet been adequately 
resolved). A corollary is that the actual roles and authorities of individual 
central banks should be known in advance and should not be invented 
as events unfold. In addition, the precise terms on which they will par-
ticipate in lending assistance should be made clear in advance of the next 
crisis. 
 Naturally, the points noted above relate specifically to financial institu-
tions – they were at the center of the crisis, they made considerable mis-
takes, and they need to take steps to avoid future problems. But many of 
the same lessons can be extended to corporate entities from other indus-
tries. Some of these points are simple common sense and prudent risk 
management, regardless of industry or specialization. There are thus uni-
versal lessons to take away from this rather wrenching experience. 
 Overview of the Book 
 As we embark on our analysis of liquidity risk, we shall consider the topic 
from a number of theoretical and practical perspectives. 
 
 
●Part I: In the balance of Part I, we shall expand on aspects of corpo-
rate liquidity, first by considering the nature of liquidity and financial 
operations in the modern corporation, and then by examining tradi-
tional sources of asset, liability, and off-balance sheet liquidity. 
 
 
●Part II: In Part II we analyze the nature of liquidity risks. In Chapter 4 
we examine funding liquidity risk, in Chapter 5 we follow with asset 
liquidity risks, and in Chapter 6 we explore the combination of joint 
asset/funding liquidity risks and the theoretical nature of liquidity spi-
rals, distress, bankruptcy, and contagion. We supplement these discus-
sions with a number of “real life” case studies of liquidity crises in 
Chapter 7, including several that occurred during the financial crisis 
of 2007–2008. 
 
 
●Part III: In Part III we shift from an examination of liquidity-induced 
problems to methods of management and control. In Chapter 8 we 
focus on practical mechanisms of measuring liquidity risk, in Chapter 9

--- Página 41 ---
Liquidity Risk Defined 
23
we describe methods of managing and monitoring liquidity exposures, 
and in Chapter 10 we discuss the nature and benefits of liquidity-based 
crisis planning. Chapter 11 considers a range of new regulatory initia-
tives that have been introduced in the aftermath of the financial crisis 
(with a specific focus on those affecting the banking and insurance 
sectors). We summarize our thoughts and provide some guidance on 
future challenges in Chapter 12.

--- Página 42 ---
24
 2 
 Liquidity and Financial Operations 
 With some preliminary background on liquidity and its associated risks, 
we are now prepared to review the role of liquidity in financial opera-
tions. By examining concepts related to the operating environment we 
come to understand the importance of liquidity from an internal and 
systemic perspective, which will be useful when we consider liquidi-
ty-induced problems in Part II of the book. In this chapter we explore 
liquidity operating requirements, the liquidity risk/return trade-off, 
liquidity characteristics across industries, and endogenous versus exog-
enous liquidity. 
 Liquidity Operating Requirements 
 During the 1950s and 1960s companies relied primarily on operations 
to generate the cash necessary to meet their short-term obligations and 
supplemented this with conventional bank funding arrangements. With 
the arrival of more significant volatility in the 1970s (fuelled by deregula-
tion, floating interest/currency rates, inflation, and mobile capital) and 
the advent of new funding and asset management products/solutions in 
the 1980s and 1990s, firms started becoming more active and creative in 
their liquidity management practices. Such efforts have expanded further 
in the first two decades of the millennium as companies strive to maxi-
mize enterprise value by utilizing their financial resources as efficiently 
as possible. 
 Ample liquidity is necessary in order for a company to meet its finan-
cial imperatives and satisfy stakeholder expectations, regulatory rules, 
and credit rating agency requirements. Liquidity is not, of course, the 
only corporate or external imperative. Solvency, which we define as a suf-
ficiency of capital resources, is just as critical to ongoing corporate opera-
tions: absent sufficient capital, a firm becomes insolvent. Accordingly, 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 43 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
25
individual firms and regulatory authorities devote considerable efforts to 
ensure capitalization levels are at all times adequate. 
 While liquidity and solvency are both essential to the corporate balance 
sheet, they are driven by different factors and are used to achieve differ-
ent goals. Liquidity, as we know, relates to maintaining access to cash and 
equivalents to meet obligations as they come due. Solvency, in contrast, 
relates to preserving enough capital resources to fund a firm’s ongoing 
operations and absorb unexpected losses. Both are needed if a firm is to 
operate as a going concern, but they are still separate and unique: a firm 
that is technically solvent can fail from lack of liquidity, while a firm that 
is liquid may become technically insolvent. 1 The two concepts are drawn 
closer together when severe lack of liquidity, coupled with demands to 
meet large obligations, forces wholesale disposal of assets at prices that are 
well below carrying value; in extreme situations, such actions can lead 
to negative net worth (that is, technical insolvency). Generalizing, we 
might therefore say that liquidity is primarily concerned with managing 
short-and medium-term resources and obligations and is thus an essential 
tactical operating requirement; solvency is focused on the “going con-
cern” paradigm over the long-term and is an essential strategic operating 
requirement. 
 Liquidity management is a dynamic process because the cash posi-
tion of a firm changes, quite literally, every day. At any point in time a 
liquidity position that appears adequate can become inadequate, and vice 
versa – the passage of time, the movement of markets, the expected or 
unexpected inflow and outflow of cash, and the expansion or contraction 
of business activities ensure that this is the case. Dynamic liquidity man-
agement, not surprisingly, is concentrated heavily in the short term, up 
to 30 or 60 days. While liquidity issues can also affect a medium- or long-
term financial position, the degree of sensitivity is much smaller: actions 
taken today, which will only come to fruition in 6, 12, or 24 months, 
can often be reshaped during the intervening period – although they, 
too, will eventually impact the firm’s liquidity profile and requirements 
through the passage of time. 
 Since liquidity changes continuously, it is helpful to consider cycles of 
cash inflows, outflows, and requirements. Firms do not have the same 
demand for liquidity at all points in time – either seasonally or struc-
turally – so a proper plan must be developed. Consider, for instance, 
Company A, which operates in a very predictable corporate environment, 
plans ahead for seasonal variations in cash flow, and keeps a liquidity 
buffer (i.e., a reserve of cash and liquid assets) to cope with unexpected 
payments; A’s demands for incremental liquidity under any scenario are 
likely to be negligible. Company B operates in a seasonal business with

--- Página 44 ---
26 
Liquidity Risk
cash inflows and outflows occurring at regular intervals during the cycle. 
When B is in the “cash flow positive” portion of the cycle, it does not need 
extra liquidity and can accumulate a buffer for unexpected payments, or 
for the cash outflow part of the cycle. When B moves into the “cash flow 
negative” portion, it needs access to liquidity. If B has planned ahead, it 
might have accumulated enough of a buffer to meet requirements; oth-
erwise, it will have to turn to alternative sources, intensifying liquidity 
pressures. Finally, we have Company C (operating in the same cycle), 
which is periodically impacted by unexpected payments (regardless of 
the phase of the cycle) and has not established a buffer to cover emer-
gencies. C always requires access to external liquidity and thus suffers 
from more serious liquidity pressures. The primary point to emphasize 
is that companies, regardless of industry, face different liquidity profiles 
and needs over time, and must deal with a range of internal and external 
forces when creating a management process. Figure 2.1 illustrates this 
discussion. 
 Although dynamic management of liquidity is essential for virtually 
every organization with fluid operations, it may be of less concern for a 
very small subset of institutions we classify as “hold to maturity” firms. 
While this theory is applicable across industries, in practice it is associ-
ated with certain investment management operations. The theory states 
that a firm that is properly match-funded (for instance, asset and liability 
durations (i.e., cash flow weighted maturities) are approximately equal) 
and is permitted to hold assets and liabilities until maturity faces no 
liquidity risk. This occurs because maturing assets provide the funds 
needed to repay liabilities as they come due. This business model is, 
however, part of an “ideal world” that is constructed atop several key 
assumptions:
 The firm can hold all assets and liabilities until maturity. 
 
●
 Assets and liabilities are properly matched; liabilities, in particular, 
 
●
cannot be presented for early repayment and assets cannot be called 
away. 
 No unexpected payments arise (or those that arise can be met with an 
 
●
extra buffer of liquidity). 
 Accounts are not marked-to-market. 
 
●
 Assets are not subject to default and yield a defined value at maturity. 
 
●
 If these conditions exist, a firm arguably faces no liquidity risk. However, 
since very few organizations operate in this theoretical state, the prudent 
approach says that liquidity risk is an exposure that every firm must con-
sider and manage.

--- Página 45 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
27
 General Approaches to Liquidity Management 
 Management of liquidity risk is a vital, sometimes complex, function – 
regardless of industry. In practice, the liquidity management process can 
be divided into three broad segments: daily management of cash flows, 
medium-term (6–24 months) management of business operations (includ-
ing realignment of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet contingencies), 
and crisis management of stress/disaster events. In the large corporation, 
liquidity should be managed at both a business unit/legal entity/regional 
level and at a consolidated level. This is helpful and necessary if particu-
lar units are subject to regulations or restrictions that influence access to 
cash resources. For instance, a subsidiary might be restricted from passing 
cash to a sister company or up to the parent, or it might have better access 
to competitive sources of local funding. Knowledge of such costs, benefits 
and barriers is integral to effective management. Ultimately, of course, 
consolidated management of liquidity is most critical because that reveals 
the total picture of a firm’s liquidity position. 
 In many organizations the task of managing liquidity has historically 
been the exclusive, or primary, responsibility of the corporate treasury 
function, with little (and sometimes no) participation by others. In 
recent years, however, it has become more common for other groups 
to be directly and indirectly involved in the process: financial control, 
risk management, operations/settlements, business units, and product 
development teams all have a stake in the process and are often actively 
$ cash
flows
Seasonal cash
flow cycle
Company B:
seasonal external
liquidity needs
Company C:
constant external
liquidity needs
Company A:
negligible external
liquidity needs
Time
 Figure 2.1  Corporate liquidity needs

--- Página 46 ---
28 
Liquidity Risk
involved. Their duties may also be overseen by executive management 
and/or board directors. Not surprisingly, the involvement of many differ-
ent parties requires robust communication and coordination. 
 To avoid confusion and problems, many companies manage their 
liquidity on a formalized basis, through a structure that assigns specific 
responsibilities to different groups. Although we will consider detailed 
approaches to governance and liquidity management later in the book, 
we note at this juncture that a general liquidity plan might focus on the 
following steps:
 Matching cash flows: offsetting cash inflows/outflows of assets and 
 
●
liabilities as closely as possible across the maturity spectrum in order 
to keep the funding gap tight. 
 Diversifying assets and liabilities: ensuring that portfolios of assets and 
 
●
liabilities are diversified across maturities, markets, sectors, and pro-
viders in order to reduce over-reliance on any single source. 
 Creating a liquidity warehouse: developing a portfolio of high quality, 
 
●
liquid securities that can easily be pledged as collateral or sold in order 
to raise new funds. 
 Developing committed funding sources: obtaining bank facilities that 
 
●
are truly committed, and that will not be withdrawn under any cir-
cumstances. 
 Purchasing liquidity options: using financial resources to acquire con-
 
●
tracts that will provide cash injections when needed. 
 By creating a plan based on such techniques a firm assumes greater con-
trol of its liquidity profile and can actively manage the inflows and out-
flows that drive daily operations. 
 Financial Imperatives 
 A firm faces certain financial imperatives when conducting business, 
including maximizing enterprise value and minimizing the possibility of 
financial distress. 2 From a liquidity perspective, a firm’s executives must 
be keenly aware of the cash position and be prepared to manage it under 
both normal market conditions and stress scenarios (where that stress 
event can last from days to months). Daily operations drive the majority 
of a firm’s liquidity requirements and are the foundation of any liquid-
ity plan; expected cash inflows and outflows form the liquidity baseline, 
representing resources and obligations generated in the normal course of 
business. A firm with robust, positive operating cash flow, proper access 
to funding, and correctly structured asset, liability, and off-balance sheet

--- Página 47 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
29
portfolios can manage its liquidity under normal market conditions with 
relative ease. 
 But financial imperatives related to liquidity must extend beyond the 
normal course of business. Some allowance must be made for the onset 
of unexpected obligations or payments – events that represent deviations 
from the baseline, when cash outflows are larger than expected. These 
can impact companies from any sector at virtually any time, so the pru-
dent firm must prepare by arranging suitable  ex ante resources and mar-
ket access. For instance, a bank must be ready to respond to the cash 
pressures imposed by an unexpected wave of deposit withdrawals or the 
absence of buyers for particular assets that it needs to sell. A steel com-
pany has to be ready to respond to emergency repairs to plant and equip-
ment that are not suitably covered by insurance, or to a lack of investor 
interest in rollovers of its commercial paper. As noted, this means that 
a firm must understand in detail the nature of its cash inflows and out-
flows; the structure of its assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet con-
tracts; and any potential surprises that might arise and consume cash 
resources. If it can do this accurately, then it is well positioned to man-
age its liquidity in a prudent manner and meet its financial imperatives 
under all conditions. 
 External Requirements 
 Not all of a firm’s liquidity management process is driven by internal goals. 
Some portion may also be guided or required by regulatory authorities, 
who may want to see a robust control process in place. This is particularly 
true in the financial services sector, where regulatory frameworks (such as 
Basel II, Basel III, Solvency II, and so on) require a participating institution 
to adhere to defined liquidity monitoring and management practices. In 
addition, rating agencies (such as Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s Investor 
Services and Fitch) may require evidence of certain liquidity management 
controls in order to award higher credit ratings. 
 Regulators are interested in preserving systemic market stability and 
reinforcing investor and creditor confidence. By promoting minimum 
standards of liquidity (as well as capitalization, asset quality, and so forth) 
they can help achieve these goals. In the normal course of affairs regula-
tors are thus concerned with:
 maintaining systemic stability (particularly in industries that supply 
 
●
liquidity to others, intermediate in the origination and allocation of 
capital funds, transform maturities of cash flows, or create liabilities 
that are due and payable to others);

--- Página 48 ---
30 
Liquidity Risk
 creating investor, depositor, and lender confidence (which can help 
 
●
strengthen capital flows and participation in government securities 
markets, including benchmarks used to price other capital instruments 
and derivative contracts); 
 ensuring conditions are conducive to monetary policy activities 
 
●
(including open market operations, which rely heavily on active trad-
ing in government securities and repurchase agreements). 
 In fact, regulatory involvement occurs on an  ex ante and  ex post basis.  Ex 
ante , the regulator develops appropriate rules and regulations regarding 
maintenance of liquidity, and  ex post it may provide a liquidity injection, 
restructuring, or rescue.  Ex post involvement must necessarily be lim-
ited to instances where systemic stability is truly at risk, such as we have 
seen during the financial crisis of 2007–2008. If it is applied too liberally, 
instances of moral hazard are almost certain to arise. 
 Regulators naturally focus considerable attention on financial institu-
tions. In order for the system at large to remain stable, financial institutions 
must manage liquidity flows properly, providing borrowers, depositors, 
creditors, policyholders, and investors with funds when desired or con-
tractually required. Regulators can ill afford  liquidity-related problems in 
any portion of the financial sector, as dislocation can soon create systemic 
instabilities, which feed into other sectors of the macro-economy. For 
instance, problems in the banking sector can disrupt funding availability 
in the corporate sector, causing broader economic woes, including slow 
growth and higher unemployment; the crisis of 2007–2008 illustrated 
this point all too clearly. In order to help protect against systemic liquid-
ity problems, regulators may attempt to directly or indirectly influence 
institutions by penalizing activities that are illiquid or create illiquid-
ity. For instance, banks or insurance companies choosing to hold very 
illiquid securities may be required to allocate more capital in support of 
the positions or discount their value more heavily. Or financial holding 
companies that rely on other group companies or subsidiaries for liquid 
funds (for example through intracompany loans, or dividend upstream-
ing) might be restricted in their ability to source such funds so that the 
broader group structure is not placed at risk. In fact, new regulations put 
in place starting in 2009 explicitly require banks and insurers to take 
defined and proactive steps in managing liquidity; we shall discuss this 
topic later in the book as it represents a fundamental, post-crisis change 
in the regulatory treatment of liquidity. 
 Rating agencies also factor into the process. The major credit rating 
agencies are responsible for assigning ratings to individual firms and sov-
ereign entities. These debt ratings are, of course, a reflection of the ability 
of individual entities to repay their contractual obligations – the greater

--- Página 49 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
31
the financial strength, the greater the likelihood of timely repayment, 
the higher the resulting credit rating. Although many factors are used in 
determining a rating (earnings, capital, asset quality, management, lever-
age, competition, and so forth), liquidity counts as an essential ingredi-
ent. All other factors equal, a firm that is illiquid will receive a lower 
rating than one that is liquid. Accordingly, firms must be cognizant of 
the perspective and requirements of rating agencies as related to finan-
cial strength generally, and liquidity strength specifically. Expectations 
regarding minimum thresholds of acceptable liquidity must be incorpo-
rated into overall management plans. Failure to take account of this exter-
nal dimension can directly impact on the cost of a firm’s funding and its 
ability to access specific types of financing. 
 The consideration of liquidity can thus be seen as a combination of 
internal financial imperatives and external recommendations or require-
ments. While best practices or minimum standards are a good starting 
point in creating a management framework, companies may find it help-
ful to consider processes that go beyond such minimum standards, as we 
shall note in Part III. 
 The Liquidity Risk/Return  Trade-Off 
 Let us now return to a point we introduced in Chapter 1. If ensuring an 
appropriate amount and type of liquidity in order to minimize, or elimi-
nate, the prospect of financial distress is a key imperative, then it would 
seem logical for directors and executives to want to create a company that 
is as liquid as possible. At first glance it would appear beneficial for a firm to 
try to maximize the liquidity in its asset portfolio, arrange access to a suf-
ficient amount of committed funding, and ensure ongoing ability to enter 
into contingent transactions that provide further financing options. 
 While these seem like sensible choices, we must recall that corpora-
tions are risky entities, and suppliers of risk capital demand returns that 
are commensurate with the capital they allocate. Creating a truly liquid 
corporation comes at a price that detracts from returns: a sacrifice in yield 
on the asset side of the balance sheet, or a rise in all-in funding costs on 
the liability side or via off-balance sheet contingencies. For instance, in 
order to maintain a portfolio of liquid assets (such as short-term govern-
ment securities or very high quality corporate or agency securities) that 
can be converted into cash quickly, with no discount to carrying value, 
a company must accept a lower yield. The return on liquid assets is lower 
because the liquidity premium commanded is small compared with assets 
that are less saleable. The creation of readily liquefiable assets therefore 
detracts from the company’s overall returns and translates into a lower 
return for risk capital investors.

--- Página 50 ---
32 
Liquidity Risk
 The same occurs with funding. For example, a company that wants to 
make certain it has undoubted access to financing will have to pay com-
mitment and arrangement fees to its bank for backup revolving credit 
facilities – a cost of ensuring that liquidity is preserved, one that detracts 
from investor returns and decreases enterprise value. 
 The same applies to the banking institution. A bank relies heavily on 
short-term interbank and demand deposits to fund its loan business; while 
these may be cheap funding solutions, they are notoriously unstable, par-
ticularly in difficult or competitive market scenarios. Lengthening liabil-
ity maturities to match asset maturities and eliminate any gap seems like 
a reasonable solution. Once again, however, there is a price – this time in 
the form of an increased cost that must be paid for medium-term funding 
(in a normal positive yield curve environment). The cost compresses the 
bank’s net interest margin, reduces earnings, and leads to a lower earn-
ings valuation. The marginal cost of ensuring liquidity must therefore 
factor into the corporate analysis. Again, it is relatively simple for a com-
pany to remain completely liquid in order to meet any possible liquidity 
claims – but this will not maximize shareholder value. Naturally, this 
liquidity risk/return trade-off concept is consistent with other aspects of 
financial theory: firms and investors seeking greater returns must accept 
more risk – in this specific case, it is liquidity risk. 
 If the goal of directors and executives is to maximize enterprise value, 
the determination of optimal liquidity is complex: it is possible to create a 
perfectly liquid firm that will never suffer financial distress, but will gen-
erate inadequate shareholder returns, or an illiquid firm that may indeed 
suffer from financial distress under certain scenarios, but will otherwise 
provide superior investment returns. In fact, the optimal answer is likely to 
lie between the two extremes: most firms balance the liquidity risk/return 
decision by attempting to create a liquidity risk profile that allows for pru-
dent management of risk – particularly for extreme events that can create 
devastating losses – while still delivering adequate returns to investors. 
 The liquidity trade-off can be evaluated in a standard cost/benefit 
framework, just as a firm might weigh other financial and operating risks. 
The costs include lower yield on earning assets and/or payment of com-
mitment fees to ensure the availability of standby facilities. The benefits 
include a smaller chance of having to arrange funding at a very high rate 
of interest or having to sell assets at a distressed level in order to cope 
with a liquidity crisis. When determining these costs and benefits, it is 
important for the firm to consider that holding liquid assets is equivalent 
to purchasing liquidity insurance; if a firm seeks such liquidity insurance 
from a third party, it will pay a cost in the form of a premium. Thus, to be 
accurate in the assessment of costs and benefits, it is unfair simply to view

--- Página 51 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
33
the holding of liquid assets as a gross cost – an estimate of the implied 
benefit must be factored into the analysis. 
 Table 2.1 highlights the costs and benefits of a company with vary-
ing degrees of liquidity, and Figure 2.2 summarizes the risk/return trade-
offs facing firms that seek to eliminate all, a portion, or none, of their 
liquidity risk, and face no other financial or operating risks (for example 
the only source of potential risk is from a liquidity-induced loss). Excess 
returns are those above the risk-free rate. 
 Liquidity Profiles Across Industries 
 We have already mentioned that liquidity risk impacts individual indus-
tries to varying degrees. In this section we consider some of the general 
characteristics of liquidity and liquidity risk across four general sectors: 
financial institutions, non-financial service industries, capital industries, 
 Table 2.1  Costs and benefits to a firm under various liquidity scenarios 
 Perfectly liquid 
firm 
 Partly liquid 
firm 
 Perfectly illiquid 
firm 
 Cost 
Lower investment 
returns
Possible financial 
distress
Likely financial 
distress
 Benefit 
No financial distress
Reasonable  investment 
returns
Higher investment 
returns
Liquidity
Partly liquid firms
Perfec
f
tly liquid firms
(maximum liquidity,
minimum excess returns)
Perfec
f
tly illiquid firms
(minimum liquidity,
maximum excess returns)
Excess investment
returns
 Figure 2.2  Liquidity/return trade-off

--- Página 52 ---
34 
Liquidity Risk
and municipal and sovereign entities. Given its importance in the pro-
vision of liquidity (directly and through the maturity transformation 
process), we devote a considerable portion of this section to the financial 
sector. 
 Financial institutions 
 Financial institutions, which we define to include banks, securities firms, 
investment funds (that is, unleveraged mutual funds as well as lever-
aged hedge funds), and insurance companies, are in business to supply 
investment, financial, and risk management services – which, depending 
on structure, can carry a degree of liquidity risk. Indeed, many finan-
cial transactions arranged by, or flowing through, a financial institution 
carry some element of liquidity transfer. Through their intermediation 
duties, financial institutions match depositors with loan borrowers and 
investors with capital markets borrowers; in exchange for capital, they 
provide investment returns, and in exchange for  ex ante premiums, they 
provide  ex  post loss financing. 
 Most financial institutions act as principals rather than agents, which 
has a direct impact on their own liquidity profiles. For instance, a bank 
accepts deposits, invests the funds in securities until needed, and makes 
loans to borrowers. If depositors want to withdraw money, the bank 
may be obliged to repay on short notice. Since it is unlikely that loans 
granted to borrowers will fall due at the same time (indeed they will not, 
as demand or short-sight deposits feature uncertain time horizons), the 
bank will have to repay depositors through alternative funds – mean-
ing it must access other sources of liquidity. The same is true for capital 
markets dealing. Banks and securities firms regularly make markets in 
assets as principals, purchasing securities from clients in the secondary 
market, holding them for some  time, and then reselling them to others. 
This business provides selling clients with liquidity and must be financed 
by accessing liquidity (for instance, pledging securities for cash in the 
repurchase agreement market). 
 A similar process exists in the insurance industry. An insurer might be 
required to pay expected or unexpected claims to policyholders, provid-
ing them with post-loss liquidity, and can only do so by accessing its own 
internal and external sources of liquidity. In the investment fund industry, 
investors may redeem fund shares by providing notice, meaning the fund 
must be able to liquidate enough of the assets in the underlying portfolio 
to deliver capital back to investors – access to liquidity is essential. While 
it is true that some investment funds (e.g., hedge funds) require a longer 
notification period, allowing for more time in sourcing liquidity, many

--- Página 53 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
35
others (e.g., mutual funds and the rapidly growing exchange traded fund 
market) are structured to provide either daily or instantaneous redemp-
tion, meaning access to liquidity by the fund manager must be equally 
rapid. 
 Liquidity claims can also appear through off-balance sheet activities, 
including those generated by contingent liabilities, commitments, and 
derivative contracts; all represent important sources of business and risk 
for financial institutions. By warehousing risks, transforming maturities, 
and providing investment or risk-based cash flows, financial institutions 
are able to provide “liquidity insurance” to risk-averse depositors, bor-
rowers, investors, and insureds; in order to be able to perform this func-
tion properly, the typical financial balance sheet might feature more than 
90 percent of assets in truly liquid form. 
 To decrease reliance on lower yielding stored liquidity, financial firms 
manage their liabilities closely. A bank’s liability position is generally built 
on short-term borrowing, such as deposits, interbank funds, and repur-
chase agreements. Incremental asset growth is then managed through 
asset conversion and liability liquidity management. Under the asset con-
version scheme, a bank issues additional savings and time deposits, floats 
bonds, or accesses non-deposit funding sources, and stores the proceeds 
in a liquidity warehouse until opportunities arise to lend at a higher rate. 
Through the liability liquidity management approach, a bank originates 
higher yielding loans, then attempts to fund the loans by actively raising 
new liability contracts. The asset conversion approach is more conserva-
tive because a bank that cannot raise liabilities at a reasonable rate need 
not expand its balance sheet; a bank that has already granted a loan and 
cannot secure deposit funding will either have to secure more expensive 
funding from alternative sources or sell the loan to another bank. Either 
represents a cost. In practice, there is evidence to suggest that many banks 
follow the liability liquidity management strategy in order to reduce 
opportunity costs – but this generates additional liquidity pressures. 
 Financial institutions supplement their liability management with 
active asset management. For example, a bank might hold primary 
reserves (assets that are available immediately at no loss in carrying value 
but generate no earnings, such as cash, deposits at correspondent banks, 
and deposits at the central bank or monetary authority) and secondary 
reserves (short-term assets that are convertible quickly near carrying 
value and generate earnings, such as treasury bills and purchased inter-
bank funds) in order to meet reserve requirements and fluctuations in 
the liability account. The core lending business and other investments – 
which generate much greater earnings but impose liquidity constraints – 
supplement these reserves.

--- Página 54 ---
36 
Liquidity Risk
 Financial institutions are also heavily focused on gap management, or 
management of the mismatch between assets and liabilities. In fact, man-
aging the gap is a key mechanism for generating earnings, and a great 
deal of effort goes into understanding how portfolios can be optimized 
during particular interest rate cycles. In general, institutions operating in 
a positive yield curve environment where long-term rates are rising (or 
short-term rates are falling) want to widen the gap: this allows them to 
fund on a short-term basis and lend on a long-term basis, maximizing the 
spread between the two. Conversely, those operating in a positive yield 
curve environment where long-term rates are declining (or short-term 
rates are rising) want to narrow the gap in order to take advantage of (or 
protect against) the new interest rate environment. The reverse scenarios 
hold true for negative yield curve environments. (Appendix contains a 
primer on gap analysis for those interested in a more detailed discussion 
of this important concept). 
 More than any other economic sector, financial institutions must 
actively deal with the liquidity risk/return trade-off mentioned earlier. 
While many financial firms are aware of the need to maintain adequate 
access to cash or equivalents in order to respond to liquidity calls, they 
still strive to minimize liquid balances in order to maximize returns. 
 To consider the unique and critical role of financial institutions in the 
liquidity process, it is helpful to examine the liability claims of banks, 
securities firms, and insurance companies in terms of the amount and 
timing of cash flows – two dimensions that illustrate why liquidity man-
agement can be complex. To begin, we note that the value and timing of 
a contract may be certain or uncertain. When certain, cash flows can be 
predicted with confidence and can easily be factored into the funding 
plan; as uncertainty is introduced, the degree of confidence declines, and 
accurate planning grows more difficult. 
 Consider, for example, a bank deposit, fixed with respect to maturity 
and rate. Both dimensions are certain, meaning there is no unpredictabil-
ity regarding the magnitude or timing of cash outflow: the bank will repay 
the depositor a certain sum on a certain date. The same is true with an 
insurer writing a guaranteed investment contract (GIC): it will deliver to 
the GIC investor a specified amount of cash on a pre-determined date. 
 We now inject uncertainty into the timing dimension by considering 
an insurance company that has written a life insurance policy for a speci-
fied amount (that is, a valued, rather than indemnity, contract). When the 
policyholder dies, the beneficiary makes a claim on the insurance com-
pany: although the amount is fixed in advance, the timing is, of course, 
unknown. This extra dimension of uncertainty makes it more difficult 
for the insurer to plan for cash outflows (which can be estimated, though

--- Página 55 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
37
never precisely, through actuarial processes). Insurers and reinsurers face 
similar time and quantity uncertainties in other aspects of their business, 
including policy surrenders, guarantee provisions, liquidity backstops, 
and so forth. Next we alter the process by fixing the timing but varying 
the amount: a bank accepting a floating rate deposit with a defined matu-
rity date faces a known time horizon but is uncertain as to the amount 
it will be required to pay, as the obligation varies with movements in 
interest rates. This again injects some uncertainty into the bank’s cash 
flows. In the final stage we can vary timing and amount, introducing a 
maximum amount of uncertainty. For instance, an insurer may write an 
indemnity-based property and casualty contract with no policy cap and 
an expiry date extending many years into the future; it will thus be liable 
for paying out an unknown amount of money if a loss event strikes at 
some unknown time. Two dimensions of uncertainty combine to create 
a much more challenging liability management exercise. Table 2.2 high-
lights these examples. 
 We can extend time and amount certainty/uncertainty to the assets 
and off-balance sheet contracts of financial institutions: the process is 
the same, meaning some contracts are well defined and highly predict-
able, while others are not. Tables 2.3 and 2.4 provide further examples. 
The point of this discussion is to illustrate that liquidity providers, prima-
rily those from the financial sector, face a considerable amount of uncer-
tainty in attempting to manage the cash inflows and outflows of their 
businesses. If they fail to manage the process properly, they will damage 
their own operations and perhaps even impact their ability to offer non-
financial firms the liquidity that they require. 
 Given these cash flow uncertainties, the balance sheet of a typical bank, 
fund, securities broker or insurer must necessarily be liquid – certainly 
when compared with that of an industrial company. Financial institutions 
keep a larger portion of their assets in the form of cash and marketable 
securities, and a much smaller portion in long-term illiquid investments 
 Table 2.2  Examples of liability amount and timing variations 
 Liability amount 
 Liability timing 
 Example 
Certain
Certain
Fixed rate, fixed maturity 
deposit
Certain
Uncertain
Valued life insurance 
contract
Uncertain
Certain
Floating rate, fixed 
maturity deposit
Uncertain
Uncertain
Indemnity P&C insurance 
contract

--- Página 56 ---
38 
Liquidity Risk
 Table 2.4   Examples of off-balance sheet amount and timing variations 
 OBS amount 
 OBS timing 
 Example 
Certain
Certain
Lease payment
Certain
Uncertain
Surety bond, financial 
guarantee
Uncertain
Certain
European exercise option
Uncertain
Uncertain
Revolving credit facility
or fixed assets. Even banks with core long-term loan portfolios regularly 
attempt to reshape their commitments through syndications, loan par-
ticipations, securitizations, credit derivative hedges, and other “liquefy-
ing” techniques. Liabilities are generally short-term and often volatile. 
Although many financial institutions might prefer to concentrate them 
with a base of stable depositors/fund providers, the realities of modern 
finance are often quite different – particularly for those seeking to max-
imize value in a positive yield curve environment. Financial liabilities 
can often be withdrawn, transferred, or presented for repayment on very 
short notice. Indeed, over the past few decades the funding of many insti-
tutions has migrated from a stable base of retail and non-optionable lia-
bilities to unpredictable and optionable wholesale funds. This has added 
greater cash flow uncertainty to financial institutions and exposed them 
to larger amounts of market and credit risk. Activity in off-balance sheet 
commitments – including derivative contracts, loan commitments, leases, 
letters of credit, and so forth – injects additional uncertainty. 
 These factors, taken together, require diligent management of the 
liquidity profile. Failure to do so can lead to an increase in financing 
costs, reduced financial flexibility, and even instances of financial dis-
tress. Through differences in function, funding sources, leverage, asset 
composition, and regulatory schema, it is possible to create a spectrum 
of liquidity sensitivity within the financial sector. Securities firms, for 
 Table 2.3  Examples of asset amount and timing variations 
 Asset amount 
 Asset timing 
 Example 
Certain
Certain
Fixed rate, fixed 
 maturity loan
Certain
Uncertain
Fixed rate, callable bond 
(investment)
Uncertain
Certain
Floating rate, fixed 
maturity loan
Uncertain
Uncertain
Floating rate, callable 
bond (investment)

--- Página 57 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
39
instance, are generally most susceptible to liquidity risks, primarily as a 
result of their high leverage and relatively unstable wholesale funding. 
Unlike banks and insurers, securities firms lack a base of core liabilities; 
their operations tend to be financed primarily through repurchase agree-
ments and short-term notes. 3 In addition, they have historically lacked 
access to a central bank discount window or official lender of last resort 
(though the crisis of 2007–2008 partially altered this for some securities 
firms). Their reliance on unstable sources of funding, the fluid nature of 
their asset portfolios (including some 80 to 90 percent centered in short-
term, liquid, or saleable/marketable assets), and the depth and breadth of 
their off-balance sheet activities (particularly derivative contracts) mean 
they have greater concentrations of market and credit risks than other 
financial institutions – which, as we have noted earlier, can magnify 
liquidity exposures. Hedge funds share similar characteristics: they lack 
stable funding, speculate on a highly leveraged basis, and encumber their 
balance sheets (that is, they pledge assets in support of greater leverage). 
These factors intensify liquidity exposure and often leave little margin 
for error. 
 Banks typically feature greater funding stability than securities firms 
and hedge funds, and generally enjoy access to central bank facilities and 
a lender of last resort. That said, some banks have excessive exposure 
to very short-term and/or volatile liabilities that can be withdrawn very 
rapidly. If they use short-term institutional deposits to finance medium 
and long-term loans, they increase curve/gap risk and are prone to greater 
losses. In addition, banks are extremely significant providers of off-bal-
ance sheet facilities (such as revolving credits, guarantees and derivatives) 
and thus face a large amount of uncertain cash flows arising from con-
tingent events. 
 Mutual funds, which are not generally permitted to directly lever-
age their balance sheets, are exposed to liquidity risk primarily through 
redemptions. The fund management company must ensure that it has 
sufficient cash resources on hand to meet periodic redemptions, and 
enough liquid assets in the investment portfolio and contingent funding 
to meet more significant outflows. (Some funds are prohibited through 
their investment mandates from investing more than a certain amount 
of their portfolios in assets deemed to be illiquid; others, of course, face 
no such restrictions.) 
 Insurers are usually exposed to less liquidity uncertainty than banks or 
securities firms: most liability sources are quite long-term and stable, and 
assets tend to be conservatively managed. There are, however, instances 
where an insurer can face unexpected losses in its investment portfo-
lio (through market or credit risks) or insurance operations (through

--- Página 58 ---
40 
Liquidity Risk
extraordinary (or catastrophic) insurance claims, that is, those that are 
more severe, or occur more frequently, than actuarial expectations pre-
dict). These events can create cash shortfalls and liquidity pressures. In 
addition, certain insurance liabilities contain features that allow inves-
tors to demand return of their capital within relatively short time frames. 
Some GICs have clauses allowing investors to put the liabilities to the 
insurer in the event of a credit downgrade. Other funding arrangements 
have embedded short-term put options, and some feature cash build-up 
values that allow policyholders to borrow against them. (If such borrow-
ing occurs en masse, an insurer may be faced with short-term borrowing 
needs of its own.) Like securities firms and banks, insurers also face con-
tingent cash outflows through their participation in financial guarantees 
and liquidity backstops. 
 Non-financial service companies 
 Non-financial service companies can be exposed to a reasonably high 
degree of liquidity risk – less than most financial service firms, but often 
more than the average industrial company. Non-financial service com-
panies, including those from retailing, foodstuffs, beverages, hospitality, 
computer services, consulting, pharmaceuticals, and so on, often derive 
a great deal of funding from short and medium-term note programs, 
trade payables, and revolving credit facilities. Some of these can prove 
volatile, particularly in times of general market stress or credit quality 
deterioration. Assets may also be heavily concentrated in the short- to 
medium-term – perhaps 60–70 percent of total balances – primarily 
through receivables and inventories (which, as we have noted, can be 
considered liquid, though certainly not as liquid as marketable securi-
ties). Challenges can thus arise in matching the cash flows of assets and 
liabilities. Non-financial institutions tend to be less active in off-balance 
sheet activities than financial institutions: they are often only modest 
users of derivative contracts or providers of guarantees, and therefore 
need not be as concerned about cash inflows or outflows from such 
sources. 
 Asset trading companies are a unique “hybrid” within the sector – 
they are neither financial institutions nor capital-intensive companies, 
although they exhibit characteristics of both. For example, commodity 
and merchant energy trading firms have active short-term trading opera-
tions, but often feature significant fixed plant and equipment associated 
with extraction, sourcing, refining, distribution, storage, and/or transpor-
tation. The degree of liquidity they require, and their ongoing exposure 
to liquidity risk, depends ultimately on their business strategies and, by

--- Página 59 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
41
extension, the resulting mix of revenues. For instance, an energy trading 
firm that derives 75 percent of its revenues and operating income from 
trading crude oil, natural gas, or electricity, relies very heavily on liquid-
ity to conduct business: it will focus on maintaining a good credit rating, 
strong reputation, and robust access to cash to finance collateral calls and 
market-based profit and loss swings. An energy trading firm that obtains 
25 percent of its revenues from trading and 75 percent from exploration, 
drilling, and refining still requires good access to liquidity, but its needs 
are unlikely to be as significant and its daily management of the process 
will be less intense. 
 Capital-intensive companies 
 Companies in capital-intensive industries use the majority of their 
resources to produce or refine resources, produce hard assets, or create 
durable goods. It is no surprise, therefore, that they invest primarily in 
property, plant, and equipment, including depreciable assets with lives 
of 5, 10, 30, or more years. Since these assets are long-term in nature, 
they are often funded with long-term capital; short-term liabilities are 
used primarily to balance short-term activities, such as receivables and 
inventories. The percentage of liquid assets found on the balance sheet of 
the typical capital-intensive company ranges from 5 to 20 percent (com-
pared with 90 percent plus for an average securities firm and perhaps 
60 percent for a retailer). Capital-intensive companies do not exhibit the 
same fluctuation in asset values as they mark the bulk of their assets to 
the lower of cost or historical value (rather than current market value); 
this obviates the need to fund shortfalls arising from assets with a 
more volatile value profile. (Capital assets are, of course, depreciated on 
steady basis through non-cash charges to the accumulated depreciation 
account.) 
 The corporate sector is generally not very active in off-balance sheet 
activities. Accordingly, contingent future cash flows, such as might arise 
from derivative contracts or cross-guarantees, are the exception rather than 
the norm, and tend not to form a significant part of corporate risk manage-
ment activities. The need for intensive liquidity management in the average 
industrial company is thus lower than it is for firms in other sectors. That 
said, it is still very important for industrial firms to manage their liquid-
ity closely; as we shall note later in the book, certain industrial firms have 
been at the centre of significant liquidity crises in recent years, suggesting 
that the spectre of liquidity-induced losses, or worse, is very real. 
 It is worth noting that a small number of global industrial companies 
have very significant financial operations that are involved in a wide

--- Página 60 ---
42 
Liquidity Risk
range of financial transactions, including asset trading, leasing, deriva-
tives dealing, group-wide funding, insurance, and factoring. The pres-
ence of sufficient short-term liquidity and the commitment to active 
liquidity risk management is of paramount importance to such financial 
subsidiaries, meaning the comments we presented above for energy and 
commodity trading companies are applicable. 
 Municipalities and sovereigns 
 While most of our discussion is geared toward liquidity risk management 
in the corporate sector, we would be remiss in excluding some reference 
to municipalities and sovereigns, as such sectors must also balance their 
liquidity profiles. In the normal course of affairs, municipalities and 
sovereign nations with taxing power gather the bulk of their funding 
from corporate, personal, real estate, and consumption taxes, and the 
issuance of public or private debt securities. Against these inflows they 
face a series of outflows related to the provision of public goods and 
services, including education, health, transportation, welfare, medical 
care, retirement, infrastructure, law enforcement, fire safety and so on. 
In this sense they can be viewed as service providers, and they must 
therefore be attuned to the nature and timing of their cash inflows and 
outflows. Inability to match these properly can lead to the same liquid-
ity-induced losses that impact firms in the corporate sector and may 
require the emergency issuance of debt or the liquidation of municipal 
or sovereign assets; it may also require selling or pledging portions of 
the investment portfolio. Indeed, some public sector entities have been 
at the centre of major liquidity crises in the past, as we shall discover 
later in the book. It is worth noting that sovereign nations that have 
the power of the printing press can always print more money as a way 
of overcoming a short-term liquidity crisis. That, however, is typically 
seen as an exceptional step as it devalues the local currency and creates 
inflation pressures. 
 Figure 2.3 depicts a stylized liquidity spectrum across a range of indus-
tries – from those that face the smallest amount of liquidity exposure and 
cash flow uncertainty (and thus have the smallest need for intensive daily 
risk management) to those with the greatest amount of liquidity expo-
sure and cash flow uncertainty (and, by extension, the most significant 
need to manage their liquidity profiles very dynamically). The figure is 
generalized: there are certainly instances when a non-financial service 
company or capital-intensive firm has greater liquidity risk exposure than 
a mutual fund or an insurance company. However, the general classifica-
tion holds true for the majority of cases.

--- Página 61 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
43
 Endogenous Versus Exogenous Liquidity 
 In the last chapter we introduced the concepts of endogenous and exog-
enous liquidity. These require further exploration, as they are central to 
the liquidity risk management topic. Indeed, it is important to consider 
which factors are under the direct or indirect control of a company, and 
which factors are driven solely or primarily by external forces. While 
either can lead to liquidity pressures, analyzing and managing each one 
is different. . 
 A company can control endogenous liquidity by understanding its liquid-
ity profile and taking all necessary actions to ensure the profile is man-
aged prudently. This means maintaining a realistic, generally conservative, 
approach to structuring the asset portfolio and securing liabilities – and 
can sometimes mean exchanging incremental return for the safety of a 
larger cash buffer or additional committed financing. It may mean sacrific-
ing certain business opportunities (for instance, not accumulating a large 
market or credit risk position or expanding into a new area too rapidly) 
or refusing to take actions that might otherwise exacerbate risks (such as 
avoiding the rapid sale of an asset). The primary point is that a firm has a 
reasonable degree of control over these variables and can act as it sees fit; 
endogenous liquidity risks can thus be considered firm-specific. 
Lowest liquidity risk,
smallest cash flow uncertainty,y
least active daily risk
management requirement
Highest liquidity risk,
greatest cash flow uncertainty,
most active daily risk
management requirement
Municipalities,
sovereigns
Capital-intensive
companies
Non-financial
service companies
Financial institutions
Financial institutions
Lowest
Highest
Commercial banks
Insurance companies,
mutual funds
Securities firms,
hedge funds
 Figure 2.3  Industry-based liquidity spectrum

--- Página 62 ---
44 
Liquidity Risk
 A single company generally lacks the ability to directly control liquid-
ity risk created by systemic forces that are imposed by the marketplace, 
regulatory rules, activities of competing firms, and the state of micro and 
macro-economic and financial indicators. While a firm does not typi-
cally drive exogenous forces, it must respond to them. (It is, however, 
worth noting that an extremely large firm with significant risks or an 
entire group of smaller institutions with similar risk positions and market 
expectations can influence or intensify such forces; the crisis of 2007–
2008 demonstrated that quite clearly.) 
 Exogenous liquidity risk becomes particularly evident during times of 
stress, as market and regulatory actions introduce behaviors that exac-
erbate price shocks and illiquidity. In more serious instances, external 
factors may induce widespread withdrawal of funding, forcing firms to 
sell assets at distressed prices in order to reinforce their cash positions. 
Certain stress events can lead to a flight-to-quality effect, which we 
define as the sale of risky assets and the purchase of those deemed to be 
“safe” (such as assets with low risk of default, low correlation with other 
risky assets, and/or lower price volatility than competing alternatives; 
government bonds of industrialized nations are a good example). They 
may also lead to a flight-to-liquidity, or the purchase of assets that are 
supported by  two-way flows, even during times of extreme stress (which 
might be a subset of the flight-to-quality asset pool, such as benchmark, 
or  on-the-run, government bonds of industrialized nations). These move-
ments mean that assets deemed to be “less favorable” are liquidated, 
sometimes in large quantity, leading to sharp price declines, volatility 
spikes, and the onset of illiquid conditions. 
 Exogenous forces can quickly sweep through entire industries, markets, 
regions, or countries, impacting many firms – often without much dis-
crimination. When lenders and investors refuse to differentiate among 
institutions, strong, intermediate, and weak credits within a particular 
sector may all suffer liquidity problems. (This happened with Asian banks 
and companies in the crises of 1997–1998, US energy firms in the millen-
nium, and all manner of financial institutions in 2007–2008, for exam-
ple.) In the face of such forces, it is easy to see how a single firm can lose 
control over its own exposures – and perhaps even its financial destiny. 
 Let us consider a simple example of a stress event that creates liquidity 
difficulties. In the early part of a speculative phase, economic growth 
leads to credit extension through the banking sector, inflating the prices 
of real and financial assets. When the peak of the cycle is reached, a tight-
ening of interest rates leads to a “bursting” of the speculative asset bubble, 
the withdrawal of credit, and a drop in asset prices. The collapse may be 
fuelled, in part, by balance sheet deleveraging, including sales of assets

--- Página 63 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
45
by companies eager to repay unsecured debt that cannot be rolled over 
and sales of collateral held by banks against credit extensions. The sale of 
illiquid assets, or assets sold into an increasingly illiquid market, magni-
fies the downward price movements and generates even larger losses. In 
addition, financial institutions holding leveraged market risk positions 
may decide to liquidate; the idiosyncratic decision by each firm to sell or 
hedge such positions (or perhaps a requirement by regulators that they 
do so) may force other financial institutions to take similar actions, and 
individual actions exacerbate exogenous forces. 
 These events may be compounded by a pullback in funding by insti-
tutional investors, who might grow nervous over the instability; finan-
cial and non-financial institutions must then contend with lack of robust 
funding. Under this type of market dislocation scenario, exogenous forces 
dominate. While an individual institution may believe that its asset posi-
tions and funding plans are prudent, external forces may prove other-
wise. This is not, of course, a theoretical premise – it has occurred several 
times in recent years, for example the global stock market crash of 1987, 
the Japanese asset deflation and bad loan crisis of the 1980s and 1990s, 
the Nordic banking crisis of the early 1990s, the Mexican peso crisis of 
1994, the Asian collapse of 1997, the Russian/hedge fund debacle of 1998, 
the Turkish and Argentine banking crises of 2000, the technology-media-
telecom (TMT) asset burst of 2001, and the widespread financial crisis of 
2007–2008. Awareness of the impact exogenous risks can have on indi-
vidual corporate operations is therefore an important dimension of inter-
nal risk management. 
 In some cases regulatory authorities attempt to manage, reduce, or pre-
vent exogenous liquidity risk by creating safeguards and enhancing mar-
ket structures to promote liquidity and stability; this is particularly true 
within the financial sector. Regulatory safeguards can take different forms, 
and we provide only a few examples that illustrate the point. For instance, 
in order to reinforce trading in government securities (which often serve 
as benchmarks for other corporate instruments), some systems adhere 
to the concept of primary dealerships, which give approved institutions 
the ability to bid on a primary basis for new government securities issues 
and deal actively in the secondary market with full quote transparency. 
Those granted primary dealer status are entitled to certain monopoly 
rents not available to other institutions; that rent can be regarded as  de 
facto payment for the market-making and liquidity services they provide. 
As part of the process, governments regularly attempt to issue their own 
sovereign securities at various points on the yield curve in order to build 
a robust curve that can be used for corporate pricing and hedging, thus 
promoting more issuance and trading in the corporate sector.

--- Página 64 ---
46 
Liquidity Risk
 Some systems allow short selling, meaning that firms (and individuals) 
can borrow and then sell securities freely. A marketplace that allows short 
selling promotes more activity, as both sides can be reflected and deal-
ing can occur under virtually any type of market scenario. The same is 
often true for “when issued” trading: if authorities permit dealers to trade 
newly announced, but not yet settled, securities in a grey market, they are 
permitting liquidity to build in advance of final settlement. 
 Regulators may aid in establishing and deepening associated markets 
such as listed futures and options and over-the-counter derivatives. 
Although there are instances when derivative instruments act as 
 “competitors” or substitutes to underlying cash assets (and thus detract 
from asset liquidity), the two sectors often work in tandem, helping 
promote trading, hedging, and investing – and, by extension, market 
liquidity. Some systems allow the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase 
 agreements so that institutions can manage their short-term funding and 
investment needs efficiently and securely. While many of these efforts 
work well in some countries during most market conditions, they are not 
always guaranteed to function as expected; this is particularly, though 
not exclusively, true in less mature markets that lack strong breadth and 
depth or regulatory experience. In fact, various emerging nations have 
been susceptible to fragile liquidity over the years, in part because of fail-
ures or shortfalls within their macro regimes. 
 Unfortunately, there are times when regulatory rules and best prac-
tice measures exacerbate liquidity problems. For example, the use of risk 
policies and limits, standardized models/pricing routines, and regulatory 
capital rules means that banks and securities firms often develop a “herd 
mentality” in their approach to risk management. During stressful times 
their actions might actually magnify problems. If all institutions have 
approximately similar positions and a consistent view and approach to 
the management of risks and the protection of liquidity, then simulta-
neous response simply magnifies movements and dislocations. Two-way 
markets become one-way markets, historical asset correlations decouple, 
volatilities rise, and liquidity disappears. In the absence of “contrarian 
forces” that view such dislocations as a buying opportunity, the asset 
and funding markets can remain in a state of turmoil and liquidity can 
remain very fragile – or even non-existent. If contrarian forces actually 
exist, they are most likely to come from sectors that do not face the same 
set of regulations. (For instance, during such times insurance companies 
and hedge funds can provide some amount of stability as they are gov-
erned by different regulations – if any at all.) 
 Endogenous and exogenous forces must be carefully considered in 
any analysis of liquidity risk. Later in the book we shall consider certain

--- Página 65 ---
Liquidity and Financial Operations 
47
market-related stress mechanisms that can be incorporated into the risk 
management process to reflect the effects of micro and macro forces on 
firm-specific liquidity. With these general thoughts in mind, we turn our 
attention in the next chapter to specific sources of liquidity a company 
can draw on in order to manage its risk profile.

--- Página 66 ---
48
 3 
 Sources of Liquidity 
 As we consider liquidity risks and the challenges that can arise from 
both an asset and a funding perspective, it is helpful to begin by analyz-
ing sources of liquidity that firms from a broad range of industries can 
access in support of their operations. This provides an understanding of 
how liquidity structure must be managed to ensure availability of cash 
resources when needed. In this chapter we review sources of liquidity 
found in the asset and liability accounts of the balance sheet, as well as 
those that exist off-balance sheet. We also discuss the amalgamated pic-
ture of liquidity, in both theoretical and actual terms. 
 When analyzing liquidity sources, it is important to remember that 
this topic represents two sides of the same coin : institutions that have 
or require access to liquidity place demands on institutions that supply 
liquidity. Thus, while a company can use an unsecured bank loan as a 
source of liquidity, the bank granting that loan must be prepared to man-
age its own liquidity by arranging access to funding mechanisms such as 
interbank or retail deposits. Interbank and retail depositors, in turn, must 
be prepared to supply such liquidity by arranging in advance their own 
access to cash. Similarly, a company selling assets to generate cash must 
find investors willing to buy those assets; they, in turn, will require their 
own sources of funding in order to purchase the assets. The same is true 
for other classes of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet contingencies. 
Suppliers and users of liquidity are therefore intimately linked, helping 
illustrate how endogenous and exogenous forces might interact to impact 
a firm’s operations. 
 As we analyze asset, liability, and off-balance sheet liquidity, it is worth 
re-emphasizing that the first source of operating cash comes from core 
business revenues; without a solid base of positive cash flow operations, 
access to other sources of liquidity can become uncertain or may prove 
inadequate. Our primary assumption is that a firm has one or more cash 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 67 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
49
flow-positive businesses that generate a base of internal financing; asset, 
funding, and off-balance liquidity serve to support and supplement that 
base of financing. Indeed, a firm that experiences continuous negative 
operating cash flow over successive quarters will eventually threaten its 
liquidity position and may ultimately encounter some type of financial 
distress. 
 Sources of Asset Liquidity 
 The balance sheet is a point-in-time snapshot reflecting the financial 
structure of a firm’s business. As noted in the last chapter, an industrial 
firm typically has a larger amount of fixed assets and a smaller amount 
of liquid assets than a financial or non-financial service firm. Although 
fixed assets are less liquid than short-term securities inventories, it does 
not mean that the industrial firm has a greater amount of liquidity risk; 
as we noted in the last chapter, the typical industrial company is likely 
to match its long-term fixed assets with long-term liabilities, and must 
therefore only balance short-term assets and liabilities (i.e., its working 
capital accounts) to ensure a proper liquidity position. Similarly, although 
a bank or service company might have a greater percentage of its assets in 
liquid form, it is likely to have a larger amount of short-term or uncertain 
liabilities and contingencies, and must therefore be even more acutely 
aware of its liquidity position. Indeed, comparing the amount of liquid 
versus fixed assets across industries tells us very little; comparisons must 
be made relative to liabilities and contingencies. Regardless of industry-
specific characteristics, however, firms considered to be of good to aver-
age credit quality maintain a certain amount of liquid assets that can 
be used to meet obligations; they are also likely to preserve a reasonable 
percentage of unencumbered fixed assets that can be pledged to secure 
cash. We consider each of these in turn. 
 Liquid assets 
 Cash and marketable securities 
 Cash and near-cash instruments are the most liquid assets in the corpo-
rate portfolio. Cash is held to meet expected and unexpected payments; 
no conversion is required, so payments can simply be made from the 
cash account. However, since cash is a non-earning asset, companies that 
are sensitive to the liquidity risk/return trade-off we mentioned in the 
last chapter try to minimize their pure cash holdings, preferring to keep 
some amount of assets in the “near cash” category – very liquid, earn-
ing instruments that can be sold immediately at the carrying price. This

--- Página 68 ---
50 
Liquidity Risk
class of investments generally includes instruments with negligible credit 
and market risks, such as government treasury bills and money market 
instruments issued by very highly rated companies and financial insti-
tutions (such as A-1/P-1-rated industrial commercial paper, prime grade 
bank certificates of deposit, and bankers’ acceptances). Note that while 
such securities are readily saleable under normal market conditions, they 
do not always result in an immediate infusion of cash; trading settlement 
conventions in many markets call for exchange of cash and securities 
over two, three, or five business days. Firms, such as financial institu-
tions, whose operations depend heavily on the acceptance and provision 
of liquidity and the transformation of maturities, carry a great deal of 
their assets in the form of marketable securities; we shall revisit this in 
greater detail in our discussion of “high quality liquid assets” (HQLAs) 
later in the book, which has been formalized as part of the new regula-
tory framework. 
 While the instruments noted above can form the core of a “near cash” 
store of value, a word of caution is necessary: the financial crisis of 2007–
2008 demonstrated how some marketable securities that might be clas-
sified as “low risk” during normal market conditions can become rather 
risky during a market dislocation; that is, they are correlated with securi-
ties that have a riskier profile. For instance, industrial and financial com-
mercial paper and other bank securities became riskier than their credit 
ratings would imply during the depths of the crisis, trading at a several 
point discount to face value as a result of credit risk concerns. Some of 
these instruments became partly or totally illiquid as a result, causing a 
drop in value. It is thus critical to remember that at least some assets in 
the liquidity buffer are likely to be very sensitive to market and credit 
risks, which can ultimately affect their liquidity profile. 
 Next we find investments that carry higher yields but may not be as 
easy to sell on short-notice at the recorded carrying value; indeed, it is 
difficult to know  ex-ante which investments will be more or less market-
able in advance of a liquidity event, and it is also probably true that mar-
ketability will change through any given economic cycle. Although such 
investments lack the same degree of marketability (owing to greater credit 
and/or market risks), they are still an important source of liquidity. The 
prudent firm must therefore account for the relatively lower saleability 
by applying a “haircut” – or discount – when computing the value that 
might be obtained in a disposal scenario. If $100 million market value 
of short-term treasury bills will yield $100 million of cash, other securi-
ties – including medium- and long-term corporate bonds, government 
bonds, and agency securities – might under normal market conditions 
yield $90 million or $95 million.

--- Página 69 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
51
 Lesser quality securities, such as emerging market bonds, high-yield 
bonds, or preferred stock, will tend to yield even less under the “rapid 
disposal” scenario because the instruments carry greater market and 
credit risks and the population of buyers is much smaller (suggesting less 
liquidity). This again re-emphasizes our previous point: the riskier the 
investment and the more urgent the need to generate cash, the greater the 
discount. A seller that can liquidate an emerging market bond portfolio 
in a leisurely fashion in normal market conditions over several weeks or 
months will tend to exit at a price that approximates the carrying value; 
an urgent or distressed seller will not. 
 Of course, not all investment portfolios stand ready to be sold; in many 
cases they are used instead as collateral for loans, which fulfils the desired 
liquidity function without requiring that the firm sell assets it may wish 
to retain. But there are several costs associated with this scenario. The 
first is the size of the haircut the lending firm will require for provid-
ing a collateralized loan, the second is the interest charge applied to the 
borrowing, and the third is the reduced financial flexibility that comes 
from encumbering the balance sheet. For instance, a bank may be willing 
to lend $98 million on an overnight basis for $100 million of treasury 
notes (that is, a 2 percent haircut) as it will have no concerns about price 
deterioration in the treasury securities or the ability of the company to 
repay the loan over the next 24 hours. If the term is for one week, without 
any ability for the bank to ask for additional collateral, the haircut might 
be 5 percent. If the term is 24 hours but the securities being posted are 
long-term corporate bonds, the haircut might be 5 percent or 7 percent; if 
the term is one week, it might be 10 percent. Thus, determination of the 
liquid worth of a securities portfolio that can be used as collateral is based 
on the haircut level imposed by the bank, which is, itself, a function of 
the quality and price volatility of the asset, the saleability of the asset, the 
tenor of the loan, and the ability to request additional collateral (should 
that prove necessary). 
 It is worth noting that financial institutions actively use reverse repur-
chase agreements, or collateralized loans to third parties, to place their 
excess cash. These contracts rank below marketable securities in terms 
of liquidity, although they can sometimes be sold on a secondary basis if 
needed – we therefore include them in this sub-section. It is common for 
banks and securities firms to grant reverse repo financing to customers, 
often on an overnight or very short-term basis. If an institution extend-
ing reverse repos needs to recover its cash, it simply ceases to roll over its 
overnight reverses and suspends renewal of short-term reverses as they 
come due; this gives the firm extra cash resources that it can apply to 
its own obligations. Longer term reverses, extending out several weeks

--- Página 70 ---
52 
Liquidity Risk
or months, can be sold in a secondary market (as long as the underlying 
collateral is high-quality and fungible, such as high quality government 
securities). Thus, the reverse repurchase book must be viewed as a good 
source of asset liquidity. 1 
 Receivables 
 Receivables, which represent credit extended by a company to its cus-
tomers, rank below cash and marketable securities in terms of liquid-
ity. Receivables arise when a firm providing customers with goods and 
services permits them to pay at some future date (such as 7, 30, 60, or 
90+ days from the date goods or services are delivered). The delayed 
payments generate implicit interest earnings for the firm, meaning that 
receivables are simply short-term, generally unsecured, loans to custom-
ers. Since receivables represent future cash inflows to the firm, they are 
valuable assets that can be liquefied at an appropriate discount. Thus, a 
firm in need of cash can sell a portfolio of receivables to a third party 
directly (through a process known as factoring) or use the portfolio as 
collateral against a loan (through a practice known as accounts receiv-
able financing). 
 There are subtle differences between the two. First, factoring represents 
a direct inflow of cash achieved through sale, while receivables financing 
represents an indirect inflow through the draw-down of credit. Second, 
factoring is typically arranged on a non-recourse basis: that is, if the com-
pany sells the receivables to a factor, any customer defaults become the 
responsibility of the factor, not the originating firm. Receivables financ-
ing, in contrast, is typically arranged on a recourse basis: if defaults occur 
and insufficient cash exists to repay the loan, the bank can turn to the 
borrowing firm for restitution. In addition to factoring or collateralized 
lending, receivables can also be liquefied through the securitization proc-
ess, which we discuss later in the chapter. 
 Inventories 
 The general category of physical inventory ranks below receivables in 
order of liquidity and potential for conversion into cash (we exclude 
inventories of financial instruments from this classification, under the 
assumption that they form part of the portfolios of marketable invest-
ments mentioned above). Inventory may be classified by its stage of pro-
duction, such as raw materials, work in progress, or finished goods, each 
with its own value and value-added elements. The type of inventory 
kept on hand to satisfy customer demand depends on the nature of a 
company’s business. In some cases inventory is perishable and must be 
consumed rapidly (e.g., food, certain pharmaceuticals), while in other

--- Página 71 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
53
cases it is durable and designed to be consumed over a period of weeks, 
months, or years (e.g., textiles, computers, automobiles, and steel bars). 
Durable inventory, in particular, can often serve as a source of liquid-
ity; this is particularly true for inventory that is in strong demand and 
is relatively generic and fungible. Selling inventory rapidly to gener-
ate cash means, of course, that some discount to carrying value will be 
taken. But if cash proceeds are required, the sale of inventory is a viable 
solution. 
 It is important to consider how inventories are financed. If they are 
funded from general corporate debt sources (such as commercial paper, 
term loans, or revolvers) they are almost certainly unencumbered – 
meaning that they can be pledged instead of sold, should that prove an 
advisable course of action. The pledge may take the form of a specific 
lien on particular inventory, or a floating lien applicable generally to cur-
rent and future inventories. Inventories of raw materials or finished goods 
that have been conveyed to bonded storage or warehouse facilities can be 
secured and documented via warehouse receipts, meaning that only the 
bearer of the receipt is entitled to withdraw the goods; once the warehouse 
receipt has been issued, it can be transferred to a third-party creditor as 
a form of collateral. In other instances inventories are financed through 
self-liquidating loans, where inventory sales in the normal course of busi-
ness generate the proceeds used to repay the bank for the initial funding. 
Self-liquidating loans may include a claim over the inventory by the lend-
ing bank. In these cases a firm has no ability to use the inventory as a 
cash-generating asset, as the assets secure a previous cash inflow provided 
by the lending bank. 
 The liquid assets we have described above comprise (in whole or part) 
what is often termed a liquidity warehouse: a segregated portion of the 
asset accounts that can be sold or pledged to supplement the funding 
program to meet unexpected payments. The liquidity warehouse is likely 
to be based on securities that are available for sale (which are marked-to-
market and unrestricted), rather than those that are being held to matu-
rity (which are likely to be marked at historical value and whose sale 
may be restricted). It may also include receivables that can be factored or 
financed quickly and, in some instances, generic inventories (although 
these are likely to comprise only a small percentage of the available ware-
house). We shall revisit the liquidity warehouse concept at various points 
throughout the text, as it is an important element of prudent liquidity 
risk management. Indeed, within the banking industry financial regula-
tors believe creation and preservation of a liquidity warehouse is so vital 
that they have mandated its use; we shall discuss this framework, embed-
ded in Basel III, later in the book. 2

--- Página 72 ---
54 
Liquidity Risk
 Fixed assets and intangibles 
 While the main focus of asset liquidity is rightly on the liquid portion 
of the asset accounts, a firm might also have access to fixed assets that 
can be used to generate cash. These, not surprisingly, are of secondary 
importance as they generally cannot be used to meet emergency cash 
obligations; obtaining liquidity from fixed assets can be a time-consum-
ing affair, certainly when compared with disposal or pledging solutions 
in the liquid asset accounts. 
 Fixed assets 
 Fixed assets comprise the primary means of production for companies 
in the industrial sector. As we have noted, they are as important to rev-
enue generation as financial assets are to banks and securities firms. Hard 
assets, including plant and equipment used to transform raw materials 
into finished goods, must therefore be treated with care; pledging or sell-
ing such assets can reduce flexibility and impact a firm’s ability to man-
age its daily business affairs, generate cash flow, and maximize enterprise 
value. 
 In practice, long-term fixed assets are most often financed with long-
term capital, including equity and long-term debt. The debt supporting 
plant and equipment might or might not be secured, depending on the 
credit strength of the company and the nature and life of the asset. The 
strongest credits may not have to pledge fixed assets in support of bor-
rowings, while those of medium and low quality typically must. Assets 
securing debt obviously cannot be sold or pledged to others, meaning a 
firm can only generate cash through its lien-free fixed assets. That said, 
negotiating a financing facility supported by a pledge of fixed assets can 
take time and may not be suitable for emergency payments. Since the 
mechanics involved in arranging a credit facility that involves a valuation 
of fixed assets can take several weeks or months to conclude, unencum-
bered fixed assets can only serve as a source of liquidity when there is 
enough time available to perform necessary due diligence work. 
 Selling fixed assets to generate cash is not usually considered a via-
ble, or advisable, action (although the sale and leaseback transaction, 
described below, and the sale of non-core assets, serve as exceptions). 3 
Since fixed assets are central to revenue generation and the creation of 
enterprise value, outright sale leads to a decline in revenues and operating 
cash flows, and erosion in enterprise value. In addition, the disposal of 
fixed assets must be considered to be a medium-term transaction, espe-
cially for assets that are unique and lack a ready market of buyers. Selling 
heavy machinery, a microchip factory, or an auto plant, for instance, is a 
bespoke transaction that is likely to attract the interest of a very limited

--- Página 73 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
55
number of buyers and take many months to agree and finalize; unless 
a firm is willing to take a substantial discount to carrying value, fixed 
assets cannot typically be sold quickly. 
 Intangibles 
 Intangibles, which can be defined as assets that generate value but have 
no physical or tangible qualities, cannot really be regarded as a potential 
source of liquidity. The primary intangible of the corporate world is good-
will – the reputation, branding, and intellectual property of a firm, or in 
an acquisition scenario the differential between the acquisition value and 
book value of the company or asset acquired. In either event, goodwill 
is a non-cash depreciable asset that has value to a company and market-
place – but not necessarily a value that can be immediately converted into 
cash. There are, of course, situations when a firm sells one of its brand 
products or services to a third party; the assets associated with the sale, 
including the transfer of goodwill, are exchanged for cash. However, such 
sales are relatively unusual and designed for strategic reasons rather than 
as a liquidity management mechanism (for instance, exiting a market for 
a particular strategic or competitive motive). 
 Figure 3.1 depicts sources of asset liquidity for a standard corporation. 
 Sources of Funding Liquidity 
 After taking account of operating cash flows, funding is the first line of 
defence in raising cash to meet payments; only when funding has been 
exhausted or proves too expensive is a company likely to pledge or sell 
assets in order to supplement the cash position. In practice companies use 
various types of liabilities (depending on industry), including short-term 
financing facilities (such as commercial paper and Euro commercial paper, 
short-term bank facilities, payables, interbank/retail deposits, repurchase 
agreements, and putable funding arrangements) and medium/long-term 
facilities (such as medium-term notes and Euronote facilities, non-putable 
funding arrangements, long-term bonds, and loans). Some firms, particu-
larly those that are part of broader conglomerates, may also have access to 
intracompany cash; presuming other group members have excess liquid-
ity, and assuming no meaningful regulatory and legal restrictions exist 
regarding intracompany flow of funds, this can be considered an addi-
tional source of financing. 
 Consistent with our comments above, the relative mix of short versus 
medium/long-term debt does not, by itself, indicate a firm’s relative 
level of liquidity. While a firm that has most of its funding obliga-
tions coming due in three or five years might have fewer immediate

--- Página 74 ---
56 
Liquidity Risk
funding pressures (that is, no need for constant rollovers and no risk 
that short-term funds will be withdrawn rapidly), it might still be sub-
ject to liquidity risk if it lacks immediate access to cash to meet emer-
gency payments. A firm that has a great deal of short-term liabilities 
might appear to have greater liquidity risk, but if these contracts are 
well matched by short-term assets the liquidity position might be per-
fectly manageable and not much riskier than one with longer maturi-
ties. Of course, if those short-term liabilities are funding long-term, 
illiquid assets, a company is far more vulnerable to a liquidity prob-
lem; indeed, an excessive amount of short-term liabilities supporting 
a balance sheet with a fairly significant amount of long-term assets is 
a warning signal that liquidity problems may arise. Gauging a firm’s 
overall liquidity position therefore involves a joint evaluation of assets, 
liabilities, and off-balance sheet activities. 
Assets
Liabilities
Equity
Liquid assets
Cash and marketable securities
k
A ready source of liquidity, either
through outright sale or pledge of
unencumbered securities for cash
f
Receivables
A ready source of liquidity, either
y
through outright sale (factoring) or
pledge of unencumbered receivables
for cash
f
Inventories
An acceptable source of liquidity, either
through outright sale or pledge of 
unencumbered inventories; most effec
fff
tive
for standard, durable in
f
ventories
Fixed assets
A possible source of liquidity, primarily
through pledge of unencumbered
plant and equipment for cash
f
Intangibles
Not a source of liquidity
Fixed assets and intangibles
 Figure 3.1   Common sources of asset liquidity

--- Página 75 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
57
 In practice firms from different industries appear to favor different 
types of funding liquidity. As noted, financial institutions often obtain 
a great deal of their financing from the short-term markets in order to 
balance the very liquid nature of their assets, contingencies, and off-bal-
ance sheet obligations, and to attempt to maximize earnings in a positive 
yield curve environment. Capital-intensive institutions derive the bulk of 
their funding from medium- and long-term sources in order to match the 
financing requirements of long-term plant and equipment. (Of course, 
they still need to preserve access to the short-term markets in order to 
meet obligations coming due.) 
 Short-term funding markets 
 Commercial paper, Euro commercial paper 
 The commercial paper (CP) and Euro commercial paper (ECP) markets 
are a popular source of short-term unsecured funding for creditworthy 
companies in virtually all major industry classes. 4 The obligations issued 
by companies under CP programs (arranged and agented by investment 
and commercial banks) range from 1 to 270 days in the US market, and 
1 to 360 days in the Euromarket. In practice only prime credits (those 
rated A-1+/P-1, A-1/P-1 and, periodically, A-2/P-2 5 ) can access the CP/ECP 
market; non-prime companies are effectively barred access by interme-
diaries and investors. Conventional CP facilities are unsecured, 6 but in 
the US market they are generally backed by bank lines (swing lines) that 
can be drawn down if rollovers of existing paper prove difficult (such as 
during a market dislocation). Rating agencies generally expect such bank 
lines to be committed and large enough to cover at least half of an issuer’s 
program (and sometimes as much as 100 percent). Though popular, it is 
important to stress that the CP and ECP markets are credit and market 
sensitive, and extremely unstable during times of market stress; they can-
not be considered a reliable source of funding under all conditions, even 
for good credits. 
 Short-term bank facilities 
 Corporations regularly use short-term credit facilities supplied by banks to 
cover seasonal or emergency needs. Such facilities, available as revolvers or 
fixed-term loans, have maturities ranging from 6 to 24 months and can be 
viewed as a relatively stable source of funding during the period in which 
they remain in effect. As with other short-term funding, however, they 
must be managed closely as the maturity date approaches – the possibil-
ity of “non-renewal” exists, particularly if a borrowing company’s credit 
standing has deteriorated or the financial system has become strained.

--- Página 76 ---
58 
Liquidity Risk
 Payables 
 Accounts payable are another important form of short-term funding, 
particularly for non-financial service and industrial companies. Just as 
a company grants credit to its clients by allowing delayed payment on 
invoices, it accepts credit from suppliers by utilizing delayed payment 
terms. In fact, companies often seek to extend their payables to the last 
possible moment in order to enjoy funding access. There is, of course, a 
price for the credit that a firm absorbs: payables, like receivables, carry 
an implicit interest rate – in this case a cost, rather than a return, to 
the firm. 
 Like other short-term facilities, payables can be a volatile source of 
funds: while they may be stable when a firm’s creditworthiness is steady 
and general market conditions are tranquil, they can disappear very 
quickly. Thus, if providers of trade credit are no longer comfortable with 
a company’s financial situation or are coping with broader systemic dis-
locations, they may tighten the terms of payment for future transactions 
(for instance, payment within 7 days rather than 30 or 60 days) or simply 
refuse to renew payable credit terms at all (that is, move strictly to a cash 
on delivery basis). 
 Deposits and repurchase agreements 
 Deposits and repurchase agreements form the two primary sources of 
short-term funding for most financial institutions; these liabilities tend 
to be very short-term in tenor, with maturities ranging from overnight 
to several weeks. Interbank deposits are onshore or offshore institu-
tional funds accepted by banks from other banks; most mature in 1 to 
30 days and may be denominated in any one of several reserve curren-
cies. Interbank deposits are part of what is termed “hot money,” or credit 
and interest rate-sensitive funds that can be withdrawn and reallocated at 
very short notice. 7 Consequently, deposit takers must be prepared to fill 
the void should funds disappear or the offer price become too large. 
 The same instability does not necessarily exist with retail deposits, which 
have longer behavioral, if not always contractual, maturities. Banks with 
a broad base of core retail deposits enjoy a greater level of funding stabil-
ity, as individual depositors are generally unwilling to shift their funds in 
search of a few basis points of extra yield. Retail deposits, in the form of 
checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, and certificates 
of deposit, are said to be “sticky”: in an era of electronic banking, where 
the potential for funds movement has increased dramatically, some lia-
bilities continue to remain quite stable. Note that in most national bank-
ing systems depositors of all types are protected through some form of 
government backed deposit insurance scheme, up to defined amounts per

--- Página 77 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
59
account. This adds a degree of comfort and is a factor in the willingness of 
depositors to leave their funds  in situ , even during market turmoil. 
 Another major source of funding for financial institutions comes from 
the repurchase agreement (repo) market – the opposite side of the reverse 
repo market mentioned earlier. Just as a financial institution extends 
credit by entering into reverse repos, it accepts credit by arranging repos, 
with terms ranging from overnight out to several weeks (term transac-
tions to several months are also possible, though rather less common). 
Unlike interbank deposits, CP, and other financial institution funding 
mechanisms, repos are secured transactions. This means they are only 
available as a funding option if an institution has access to unencum-
bered securities that can be pledged as collateral per standard haircut 
requirements demanded by the marketplace. Haircuts can range from 10 
to 50 basis points on high-quality government securities (for instance, 
$100 million of US Treasuries creates a $99.75 million loan when the hair-
cut is 25 basis points) to 50 percent on emerging market and high-yield 
bonds (for instance, $100 million of bonds generates a $50 million loan). 
It is common market practice for the collateral to be revalued every day, 
and for collateral calls to be made if certain minimum maintenance levels 
are breached. 
 It is worth noting that in some systems banks have access to other 
short-term sources of funding. For instance, in the US markets author-
ized banks can take advances (loans) at the Federal Reserve discount win-
dow, and can sell Federal Funds to other banks in the system; they may 
also borrow via the Federal Home Loan Bank system and accept brokered 
deposits. Similar facilities are available in various other national systems. 
Such mechanisms are important in equalizing surplus/deficit balances, 
but they are not necessarily available to all banks at all times and may 
thus be a questionable source of liquidity. 
 It comes as no surprise that the short-term funding markets, while an 
extremely important source of corporate financing, and less costly than 
medium-term funds in a normal positive yield curve environment, are 
susceptible to a considerable amount of instability and require close mon-
itoring. The short-term nature of the obligations means that companies 
have to actively manage the repayment/redemption process, making sure 
sufficient alternative sources of funding are available in the event renewal 
is not possible or proves too expensive. A large company is likely to have 
to deal with millions, and even hundreds of millions, of maturing liabili-
ties on a daily or weekly basis, and must therefore be prepared to take 
action in the event of disruption. In practice, short-term funding facilities 
are often the initial target of firm-specific or systemic financing prob-
lems. If any instance of disruption is not managed forcefully, problems

--- Página 78 ---
60 
Liquidity Risk
can soon multiply. Lack of confidence by lenders/investors in the short-
term markets soon makes its way to other forms of funding, and can lead 
to cancellation or withdrawal of other facilities. 8 
 Medium/ long-term funding markets 
 Medium-term notes and  Euronote facilities 
 Companies regularly access funding via medium-term notes (MTNs), 
Euro MTNs and Euronotes (that is, note issuance facilities (NIFs), revolv-
ing underwriting facilities (RUFs), and related structures 9 ) in order to 
lengthen liability maturities to the two to ten year sector. Notes can 
be issued in fixed or floating rate form, and in a variety of currencies 
and markets. Funding of this type has proven very popular over the 
past few decades, as it can be accessed via “shelf” programs, with draw-
down arranged quickly in order to take advantage of favorable financing 
opportunities or to meet sudden obligations. The shelf registration proc-
ess means that the program only needs to be established and registered 
with regulators once every few years; multiple draw-downs can then 
occur when needed, with only a modest amount of new disclosure for 
each incremental tranche issued. Notes are often floated on an unse-
cured basis; only weaker credits are required to post security in support 
of their issuance. 
 Lengthening maturities can help companies ease some of the active 
liquidity management demands imposed by the short-term funding 
markets. In addition, the public medium-term markets tend to be less 
credit-sensitive than the short-term markets (apart from notes issued by 
sub-investment-grade credits). Once notes have been issued they remain 
outstanding until maturity (unless the issuing company breaches terms 
of the indenture or securities are putable by investors, in which case the 
put date must be used as the appropriate reference when determining 
the liquidity profile). This means that a multi-year obligation provides 
required funding and makes no demands on cash flow, apart from inter-
est servicing (and possibly principal amortization via a sinking fund), 
for the period in question. The trade-off in the common positive yield 
curve environment is cost: medium-term funding is more expensive than 
short-term funding, and this must be considered in the cost/benefit anal-
ysis framework. 
 Funding agreements and  GICs 
 Insurance companies rely heavily on funding agreements and GICs to 
finance portions of their insurance and investment management activi-
ties. Such agreements generally have maturities extending from one to

--- Página 79 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
61
ten-plus years, and are typically issued and placed with institutional 
investors on a fixed rate basis. Funding agreements and GICs that have 
stated maturity dates and no put options or surrender provisions can be 
considered as medium- to long-term financing. However, some contracts 
permit surrender at will or are putable by investors with relatively short 
notice; if such features exist, the funding must again be considered short-
term. For instance, some funding agreements contain 7, 30, or 90 day 
put periods; although investors may hold the agreements for many years, 
they retain the right to put the contracts back with as little as one week’s 
notice, and these must therefore be considered short-term funding. GICs 
and other contractual liabilities that allow surrender on short notice must 
be viewed in a similar manner. In practice insurers attempt to limit puta-
ble and surrenderable features in their funding agreements in order to 
create true medium-term financing. 
 Long-term bonds 
 Long-term bond issues extend the funding yield curve even further, pro-
viding corporate financing in the 10 to 30+ year sector. Unsecured bonds 
add an extra dimension of funding flexibility and stability for the rea-
sons mentioned immediately above, and can often be used to match the 
time horizon of long-term capital investments (such as those that cer-
tain industrial companies are required to make). Long-term bonds can 
be issued in the US and Euro markets, as well as the domestic markets of 
other advanced national systems. Bonds may be fixed or floating rate, 
single or multiple tranche, and registered or bearer; they may be floated 
as public or private placement securities in any one of several currencies. 
Bonds may also be structured as senior or subordinated securities; those 
that are deeply subordinated can be viewed as a form of quasi-equity, 
particularly when they are issued on a perpetual basis. Convertible bonds 
are a form of hybrid bond financing (although mandatory convertible 
bonds are more accurately classified as equity). Secured bonds, supported 
through specific or general liens on an issuer’s assets, are an important 
source of funding for some firms. Although the encumbrance prohibits 
the issuer from freely disposing of the underlying asset, the secured bond 
remains common in certain industrial sectors as a form of “semi-perma-
nent” capital financing. 
 It is important to note that bonds might not always provide the timely 
liquidity injection that a firm requires. The process involved in issuing 
a bond can be lengthy as extensive due diligence, rating agency work 
and disclosure are typically necessary. Although the shelf registration 
approach to bond issuance accelerates the flotation process, issuers that 
lack such programs must float securities on an ad hoc basis, which requires

--- Página 80 ---
62 
Liquidity Risk
a minimum of several weeks to prepare and launch. In some cases bonds 
can take several months to bring to market, particularly for issuing com-
panies that are not readily recognized in the marketplace. A firm seeking 
a quick cash infusion to bridge a cash shortfall might thus find bonds 
ill-suited for the task. 
 Loans 
 Medium- and long-term loans are another popular form of financing for 
a broad range of companies and are, in fact, the single most stable form of 
debt capital. Even when the public debt securities markets are in turmoil 
and the ability to issue is limited, companies are generally able to access 
the bank loan markets (unless, of course, the banking system itself is in 
crisis and lenders are pulling back on their lending activities, as was evi-
dent during the financial crisis of 2007–2008). This relates, of course, to 
documented credit facilities for which a borrower pays commitment and 
borrowing fees – those that are merely advised or undocumented cannot 
be regarded as robust. 
 Banks routinely lend funds to companies on an unsecured or secured 
basis for periods ranging from 2 to 20+ years. Loans may be fixed or 
floating rate, and structured with amortizing, balloon, or bullet prin-
cipal repayments; they may be drawn onshore or offshore, in one of 
many currencies. Secured loans with a charge over fixed assets are quite 
common, although the same lack of flexibility mentioned above exists. 
Evergreen facilities, which are “dateless” facilities that remain in exist-
ence until the lending bank provides notice of conversion into a term 
loan with a defined final maturity, can be viewed as a form of medium-
term lending (until the notice of maturity date has been established, 
which generally provides for a minimum repayment term of at least 
one year). 
 As we have noted, the medium and long-term funding markets can 
provide companies with greater certainty than the short-term markets, 
as cash flows are extended over a longer horizon and the need to con-
stantly refund, rollover, or otherwise refinance liabilities coming due is 
eliminated. While regular payments of interest and principal amortiza-
tion represent cash outflows, these are quite small in relation to principal 
repayments due several years in the future. Naturally, to be considered 
true medium- or long-term funds, note, bond, and loan facilities cannot 
be putable, cancellable, or callable at the option of the lender or investor; 
the contractual and behavioral maturity of the liabilities must therefore 
be identical (or very nearly so). A 10-year straight bond without puta-
ble features or triggering covenants in the indenture is equivalent to 
10-year money in the context of liability management. A 10-year bond

--- Página 81 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
63
that is putable by investors at 30 days’ notice is 30-day money and must 
be viewed as part of the short-term program; failure to do so misstates 
funding gaps and understates liquidity risk. We again re-emphasize the 
point that while funding may become more stable as it is termed out, it 
need not necessarily close or eliminate asset/liability gaps or mismatches, 
meaning liquidity risk issues might still exist. 
 Figure 3.2 highlights common sources of funding liquidity. 
 Equity capital 
 In considering the corporate balance sheet in a dual-entry accounting 
system, we know that equity capital exists to support the assets and lia-
bilities of the firm. Equity capital – retained earnings, paid-in capital, and 
capital surplus, along with certain classes of preferred securities – while 
absolutely critical to the solvency of the company and protection against 
Assets
Liabilities
CP, Euro CP
P
short-term bank facilities
payables
deposits, repurchase agreements
putable funding agreements
Ready sources of liquidity, but ones that
y
are more complex to manage and can be 
withdrawn or cancelled very rapidly
Medium-term notes/Euronotes
non-putable funding agreements
bonds
loans
Ready sources of liquidity that provide a 
greater degree of funding stability;
secured facilities remove some
balance sheet flexibility
Equity
Short-term funding
Medium-/long-term funding
 Figure 3.2   Common sources of funding liquidity

--- Página 82 ---
64 
Liquidity Risk
unexpected losses, is not typically viewed as a short-term source of liquid-
ity. From a practical perspective, a firm in need of short-term cash to 
meet a payment coming due in one week or one month is unlikely to 
issue a new tranche of common or preferred stock; the process is time-
consuming (a matter of several months in most cases) and not synchro-
nized with the short-term time frame that is required when dealing with 
liquidity issues. A firm with a treasury stock contra account has some 
ability to resell shares repurchased at an earlier time, but this would be 
an unusual transaction, and not one normally associated with liquidity 
management. 
 Of course, equity capital serves as a very important source of stable, 
long-term funding for the balance sheet, and in that sense it is enormously 
useful in guarding against liquidity problems. For instance, illiquid assets 
can (and should) be funded with long-term financing such as long-term 
debt and equity (sometimes referred to as cash capital) 10 – this helps elim-
inate liquidity uncertainties that might otherwise affect the balance sheet 
through, for instance, the withdrawal of short-term funding. . 
 Sources of  Off-Balance Sheet Liquidity 
 Off-balance sheet transactions have grown rapidly in scope, depth, 
and breadth over the past four decades and are now an elemental part 
of financial and corporate risk management. As the name implies, off-
balance sheet transactions reside off the corporate balance sheet rather 
than in the “visible” asset or liability accounts, and may be characterized 
by uncertain value. They might exist as contingencies that have not yet 
resulted in the direct creation of credit or market risk exposure, and they 
might feature economic worth that fluctuates with changing market con-
ditions. Although portions of the exposure generated by these contracts 
can appear through the balance sheet and/or income statement as value 
is “crystallized” (for example derivative receivables/ payables, based on 
mark-to-market valuations, appear on the balance sheet, and draw-downs 
on revolving credit facilities appear as assets for the lenders and liabilities 
for the borrowers), the remainder of the future/contingent exposure is 
generally referenced in the footnotes to a company’s statutory financial 
statements. 
 Nevertheless, such instruments represent important sources of liquidity 
for those who can use them to gain access to cash or assets. Perhaps more 
importantly, they represent potential liabilities of liquidity providers who 
might be required to fund in the event of exercise, sale or draw-down. 
Not surprisingly, since the financial crisis of 2007–2008 companies across 
many industries have placed much greater emphasis on gaining a bet-
ter understanding of their off-balance sheet activities and how they can

--- Página 83 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
65
affect, and be used to manage, the corporate liquidity profile. In this sec-
tion we consider several broad classes of instruments that can serve as 
sources of liquidity: securitizations, derivatives, contingent financings, 
and leases. 
 Securitization 
 Securitization is a common technique of financial engineering that can 
be used to transfer risk and generate liquidity. Although credit/market 
risk transfer is generally the main motivation for engaging in securitiza-
tion, we shall focus strictly on the liquidity features of the process. 
 In a standard securitization, a firm sells a portfolio of assets into a con-
duit (generally a trust or special purpose entity (SPE)), generating a cash 
inflow. The conduit then issues tranches of notes to investors, with each 
tranche representing a different claim/priority/maturity that gives inves-
tors the option of purchasing the investment profile they prefer. Flows 
from the underlying assets are used to pay periodic interest payments 
to investors according to the sequence and schedule established through 
the tranching mechanism. At maturity, the underlying assets are used 
to repay the principal, and once complete, the securitization transaction 
terminates. In some instances specific tranches are insured by outside 
support providers, such as insurance companies or financial guarantee 
companies (effectively monoline insurers), in order to create securities 
with very strong credit ratings. 
 With this basic description, it is possible to see how securitization can 
liquefy the sponsoring institution’s balance sheet: the sale of assets, such 
as mortgages, mortgage-backed securities, loans, corporate bonds, auto or 
credit card receivables, or inventories, converts a portfolio of assets into 
cash. 11 The process, however, takes time to arrange. Establishing a trust or 
SPE to purchase the assets, creating and then “seasoning” portfolios that 
generate the proper profile to meet investor requirements, and identify-
ing investors interested in buying specific tranches can take months to 
structure, negotiate, and conclude. Even subsequent securitizations can 
take several weeks of work. Securitization must therefore be viewed as a 
medium-term solution to generating cash. 
 It is also worth noting that not all securitizations free a sponsoring 
institution from liquidity risk. For instance, when a bank is involved in 
selling assets to the SPE, it often provides a contingent liquidity facility 
that helps support timely payment of principal and interest on the notes; 
although the liquidity risk becomes contingent rather than first-order, it 
still exists and must be properly recognized as an exposure. (Corporate 
securitizations do not carry the same risks for the sponsors, as companies 
contract with banks to provide appropriate backstops.)

--- Página 84 ---
66 
Liquidity Risk
 Not surprisingly, the market for securitizations depends on the 
state of financial markets generally, and investor appetite for struc-
tured transactions specifically, and is not available at all times. For 
instance, the financial crisis of 2007–2008, which was created in part 
by ill-advised and often unsuccessful attempts to securitize subprime 
(e.g., high risk) mortgages, called into question the entire securitiza-
tion “originate and distribute” model. Losses sustained by both spon-
sors and investors meant that the broad market for securitizations was 
effectively shut down for several years. Resumption of “vanilla” securi-
tizations commenced in 2010–2011 (under new regulations and qual-
ity standards). 
 Figure 3.3 illustrates the generic flows of a securitization involving 
mortgages; as noted, we might just as easily substitute receivables or other 
assets. 
 Contingent financings 
 Contingent financings are an extremely popular form of liquidity 
for institutions, permitting the  ex-ante establishment of funding that 
might not be needed until some future time. For instance, rather than 
taking out a $100 million loan to fund a future event that might not 
occur, a firm can simply contract to take out an option to draw-down 
$100 million when, and if, needed. (Once drawn, the liability becomes 
Company
SPE trust
Insurer
Super AAA
tranche
AAA
tranche
BBB
tranche
BB
tranche
Residual
Capital
markets
investors
Premium
Credit
wrap
P&I
P&I
P&I
P&I
P&I
Securitization
proceeds
Cash inflow
Sale of mortgages with
principal and interest
(P&I)
Mortgage
portfolio
f
 Figure 3.3   Generic securitization

--- Página 85 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
67
a funded loan, as described above.) Under most circumstances the firm 
will pay a fee for the facility (that is, a commitment fee, which essen-
tially serves as a liquidity option premium), but need not inflate its 
balance sheet or pay a full funding cost for a facility that might never 
be required. 
 Contingent financings are available in a number of forms, including 
revolving lines of credit (known also as a line of credit, revolver, or loan 
commitment), direct pay letters of credit, backstops, backup lines, and 
swing lines. Access to funds may be direct, as in a draw-down of a credit 
line, or indirect, as in a disbursement of funds by a bank/tender panel 
in the event existing liabilities cannot be rolled over or an issue of notes 
is not absorbed by investors (for instance, a swing line supporting a CP 
program, or a tender panel facility supporting a RUF or NIF). If draw-
down actually occurs, the borrower generates cash for its operations and 
creates a liability that becomes due and payable over a period ranging 
from several weeks to several years. In most cases borrowings are senior, 
unsecured obligations, although security may be demanded (particularly 
if the credit quality of the borrower has deteriorated between the time of 
contract and draw-down). The nature of the commitment varies, from 
absolute to advised. If only advised, a company that believes it has access 
to a source of funds must exercise due care, as the “commitment” may 
be withdrawn by the financial institution. In most instances a firm can 
strengthen the degree of commitment by executing a formal revolving 
credit agreement with defined terms and obligations and paying a com-
mitment fee. 
 Banks and insurers also provide contingent funding to third-party ben-
eficiaries designated by client firms. This provides the third party with a 
source of liquidity should the contracting firm fail to perform as expected 
on a commercial or financial transaction. Surety bonds, financial guar-
antees, and standby letters of credit are all examples of such third-party 
contingencies. If the drawing firm fails to make good on its obligations 
to the beneficiary, the beneficiary is left without a vital source of cash 
inflow. To compensate, it turns to the bank or insurer and obtains the 
expected cash flow. 
 Leases 
 Lease contracts are another source of off-balance sheet liquidity for com-
panies that prefer to lease, rather than purchase, certain types of assets. 
Operating leases, for instance, act as  de facto borrowing arrangements, 
permitting the lessee to use an asset without having to fund the principal 
element of the acquisition cost. Although lease payments can be likened

--- Página 86 ---
68 
Liquidity Risk
to standard interest payments on a bond or loan, there is no principal 
exchange involved in the standard lease. The fact that the lessee does not 
own or fund the underlying asset creates a cash flow that can be used for 
other purposes, including the establishment of a liquidity buffer or the 
payment of obligations. 
 In one popular lease transaction, the sale and leaseback, a firm sells an 
asset to the lessor and then enters into a lease agreement that allows it to 
continue using the asset. The process liquefies the firm’s balance sheet 
via the infusion of cash from the sale. Standard leasing arrangements 
covering various types of fixed assets are also common. Although they 
do not result in a direct inflow of cash as in the sale and leaseback, the 
effect is nearly the same: cash earmarked for asset acquisition can be 
reallocated to meet other obligations. Note that in certain accounting 
regimes various classes of leases appear on, rather than off, the balance 
sheet; when this occurs, the lease is simply classified as another form of 
long-term debt. 
 Derivatives 
 Listed and over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives – financial contracts that 
derive their value from an asset or market reference – have become a pop-
ular means of hedging, speculating, and arbitraging since their popu-
larization in the 1980s and 1990s. While derivatives are used primarily 
to manage aspects of corporate investment and risk, they can impact 
liquidity by supplying or absorbing periodic cash flows. For instance, a 
firm can enter into a zero coupon swap where it receives regular quarterly 
payments for a period of years but makes no payments of its own until 
maturity of the transaction; until the final maturity it enjoys regular cash 
inflows without facing any outflows. (The bank on the other side of the 
transaction faces the opposite scenario, of course.) 
 A total return swap, which is a contract that synthetically replicates the 
cash flows of an underlying asset on an unfunded basis, provides the pur-
chaser with regular cash inflows without requiring it to fund the underly-
ing asset (cash that would normally be used to buy the asset can be used 
to meet other obligations). Under a more speculative approach, a firm can 
generate extra cash inflows by selling options (derivative contracts that 
convey the right to buy (call option) or sell (put option) an asset at a par-
ticular price and time); the premium it receives represents a cash inflow 
on trade date, with no resulting liability until some future time, if ever. 
While this is a high-risk transaction, particularly if the underlying assets 
are not held on the balance sheet or insufficient cash exists to meet any 
exercise (this is known as “naked” option writing), a firm can actually 
generate cash.

--- Página 87 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
69
 Figure 3.4 summarizes common sources of off-balance sheet liquidity. 
 Other sources of on- and off-balance sheet funding exist, but most are 
variations on the structures we have mentioned above, such as related-
party transactions, where a company borrows from a subsidiary, affiliate, 
or joint venture, SPEs established to raise funds and channel them to par-
ticular parts of a corporate operation, and so forth. Regardless of the spe-
cific mechanism, it is important to re-emphasize that sources of liquidity 
are just one side of the equation. For every source that a company uses 
there must be a party to supply the liquidity – a purchaser of receivables, 
a lender against an investment portfolio or fixed assets, a provider of a 
swing line or term loan, an investor in CP or MTNs, a lessor of equipment, 
a writer of a zero coupon swap, and so forth. Liquidity suppliers must 
therefore manage their own positions very closely; failure to do so means 
Off-balance sheet
Securitization
An acceptable source of liquidity,
primarily through transfer of securities
f
or receivables to a conduit in exchange 
for cash
f
Contingent financing
A good source of liquidity, to be 
y
drawn down as needed
Leases
A good source of liquidity, releasing
y
cash to be used to meet other obligations
Derivatives
A limited source of liquidity,
primarily through off-market, synthetic, or 
leveraged structures that provide upfront
cash or relieve funding requirements
 Figure 3.4   Common sources of off-balance sheet liquidity

--- Página 88 ---
70 
Liquidity Risk
Assets
Liabilities
Liquid assets
Cash and marketable securities
k
A ready source of liquidity, either 
through outright sale or pledge of 
unencumbered securities for cash
f
Receivables
A ready source of liquidity, either
y
through outright sale (factoring) or 
pledge of unencumbered receivables
for cash
f
Inventories
An acceptable source of liquidity, either
through outright sale or pledge of 
unencumbered inventories; most effec
fff
tive
for standard, durable in
f
ventories
Fixed assets and intangibles
Fixed assets
A possible source of liquidity, primarily
through pledge of unencumbered 
plant and equipment for cash
Intangibles
Not a source of liquidity
Off-balance sheet
fff
Securitization
An acceptable source of liquidity,
primarily through transfer of securities
f
or receivables to a conduit in exchange
for cas
f
h
Contingent financing
A good source of liquidity, to be
y
drawn down as needed
Leases
A good source of liquidity, releasing 
cash to be used to meet other obligations
Derivatives
A limited source of liquidity,y
primarily through off-market, synthetic, or
leveraged structures that provide upfront
cash or relieve funding requirements
Short-term funding
CP, Euro CP
P
short-term bank facilities
payables
deposits, repurchase agreements
Ready sources of liquidity, but ones that
y
are more complex to manage and can be
withdrawn or cancelled very rapidly
Medium-/long-term funding
Medium-term notes/Euronotes
bonds
loans
Ready sources of liquidity that provide
a greater degree of funding stability;
secured facilities remove
some flexibility
Equity
Equity capital
N/A
 Figure 3.5  Key sources of on- and off-balance sheet liquidity

--- Página 89 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
71
that they may be unable to provide the cash that other firms are counting 
on, creating a “ripple effect” that can lead to broader disruptions. As we 
have noted, this might happen during periods of financial stress, when 
those accustomed to providing large amounts of liquidity to the corpo-
rate system pull back, curtail their investments or loans, or commence 
flight-to-quality by redirecting capital. 
 Figure 3.5 summarizes key sources of on and off-balance sheet 
liquidity. 
 Amalgamating Liquidity Sources 
 Companies often develop plans on how to access their amalgamated 
sources of liquidity in order to minimize costs and avoid any possibility 
of disruption. Such a plan might be especially relevant when a firm is in 
strong financial condition and in full control of its cash inflows and out-
flows, and the market environment is benign. It might, however, be less 
applicable when internal difficulties arise or external forces create market 
disruptions; adjustments might be needed in such cases, as we shall note 
later in the book. Assuming normal market conditions, however, a firm is 
likely to use most, or all, of the liquidity mechanisms that it can access in 
a timely, and economically rational, manner. A typical “rank ordering” 
might therefore be as follows:
 Rollover of existing facilities. 
 
●
 Draw-down of bank lines or contingent funding sources. 
 
●
 Pledge of unencumbered assets for loans. 
 
●
 Sale of liquid assets from the liquidity warehouse, in order of market-
 
●
ability. 
 Securitization of assets. 
 
●
 Sale of additional illiquid assets, including fixed assets and entire busi-
 
●
ness units. 
 In general, sales of long-term, illiquid assets that form part of a company’s 
core business are reserved for the latter stages of any liquidity manage-
ment program, for at least two reasons. First, since they are not readily 
marketable – certainly not in the sense of cash, securities, receivables, or 
certain inventories – they are likely to be sold at greater discounts, mean-
ing more significant loss of value. And, second, since such assets form an 
essential component of business-generating activities, they can lead to a 
permanent reduction in enterprise value. Core long-term asset sales are 
often regarded as a last measure, taken to reinforce a damaged liquidity 
position.

--- Página 90 ---
72 
Liquidity Risk
 Leaving aside these illiquid fixed assets, a company can create a list of 
liquidity sources that it can tap as needed. Obviously, no company can 
access every source of liquidity: some are industry-specific, others are 
credit rating sensitive, still others are restricted by regulatory actions 
or market practice. The liquidity “palette” for each company is thus a 
unique combination of the options we have discussed in this chapter. 
Furthermore, a distinction must be drawn between theoretical liquid-
ity sources – accessible during normal market conditions – and actual 
liquidity sources – accessible during times of market stress. The two are 
often different. Consider, for example, the theoretical and actual sources 
a securities firm can access, as shown in Figure 3.6. 
 The actual source portion reflects the securities firm’s true ability to gen-
erate cash or obtain cash from its amalgamated sources during all market 
conditions, and may be considered a more accurate representation of cash 
power. During times of market stress, when the call for liquidity is particu-
larly significant, some of the theoretical sources, such as CP, MTNs, paya-
bles, or uncommitted facilities, might disappear, creating a shortfall when 
compared with the theoretical source baseline. Knowledge of theoretical 
versus actual sources of amalgamated liquidity can be used when creating 
a liquidity risk management plan, as we shall note in Part III. 
Theoretical sources:
Net cash from operations +
Cash on hand +
Borrowing value or liquidation value of unencumbered assets (post haircut) +
Commercial paper +
Broker call loans +
Medium term notes +
Unsecured portion of undrawn, uncommitted bank facility +
Unsecured portion of undrawn, committed bank facility +
Certain and contracted cash inflows
Actual sources:
Net cash from operations +
Cash on hand +
Borrowing value or liquidation value of unencumbered assets (post haircut) +
Commercial paper +
Broker call loans 
k
+
Medium term notes +
Unsecured portion of undrawn, uncommitted bank facility +
Unsecured portion of undrawn, committed bank facility +
Certain and contracted cash inflows
Disappear
Figure 3.6  Theoretical and actual liquidity sources for a securities firm

--- Página 91 ---
Sources of Liquidity 
73
 Financial and non-financial institutions have access to a number of 
liquidity sources. While not all types of asset, funding, and off-balance 
sheet liquidity are accessible to all companies at all times, many of them 
are. Companies seeking to manage their liquidity profiles are thus wise 
to arrange  ex-ante access to as many as possible. Although this implies 
a cost, it can help minimize the likelihood of liquidity-induced losses, 
particularly those that might appear during difficult market conditions. 
However, the process is not always simple; in the next part of the book 
we shall consider difficulties that can arise when funding, asset, and joint 
liquidity risk problems appear.

--- Página 92 ---
Part II 
 Liquidity Problems

--- Página 93 ---
77
 4 
 Funding Liquidity Risk 
 We begin our discussion of theoretical and practical liquidity risk prob-
lems with an analysis of funding liquidity risk, which we have previously 
defined as the risk of loss stemming from an inability to obtain unse-
cured funding at economically reasonable levels when needed. If short- 
and long-term debt facilities and off-balance sheet contingencies cannot 
be accessed as required, a firm might experience funding losses; when 
coupled with the asset liquidity risk problems discussed in the next chap-
ter, more serious instances of financial distress can develop. 
 Funding access might be influenced by endogenous or exogenous fac-
tors. For instance, from an endogenous perspective a firm might not be 
able to obtain necessary unsecured financing if its overall financial per-
formance has deteriorated sharply and rapidly or if its credit rating is too 
weak. From an exogenous perspective, a severe disruption in overall mar-
ket conditions as a result of systemic instabilities might jeopardize appro-
priate access for many (all) firms. 
 Let us consider the notion of liquid and illiquid markets for funding. 
A liquid market allows participants to meet requirements when needed 
through rollovers of existing financing arrangements, or draw-downs of 
new or pre-arranged facilities. A liquid market will absorb a firm’s funding 
requirement at, or very near, the firm’s expected cost of funds, with no 
change in terms (i.e., no change in maturities, no inclusion of restrictive 
covenants or collateralization). An illiquid market – one that lacks depth 
or is unstable – prohibits large financing needs from being met without a 
significant rise in costs, change in structure, and/or time delay; if lenders 
or investors are unwilling to supply funds at a company’s expected cost 
levels on relatively short notice, losses may result. There are, of course, 
instances when a firm can fund a large position in an otherwise illiquid 
financing market by dividing its obligations into many small cash flows 
or utilizing multiple products, sources, or conduits; the market in total 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 94 ---
78 
Liquidity Risk
might be able to absorb the requirement, so funding levels might not rise 
appreciably. However, funding liquidity management is often based on 
speed of execution. Immediate access to cash is generally important, so 
the time dimension can become as vital as the cost dimension, and the 
funding premium demanded for immediacy can lead to losses. 
 Sources of Funding Liquidity Risk 
 Unexpected demand for cash is at the heart of funding liquidity risk. 
Anticipated obligations can typically be accommodated without dif-
ficulty since they fall within the scope of known corporate plans and 
forecasts. Unanticipated obligations are difficult to incorporate in a risk 
management plan, although some amount of contingent funding can 
be established to manage “surprises” (within the confines of a rational 
liquidity risk/return trade-off, as mentioned in Chapter 2). Whether this 
amount will ultimately be sufficient cannot be precisely determined on 
an  ex ante basis, though running a series of plausible scenario analyses 
may provide appropriate guidance. Unexpected demand for liquidity can 
come from various sources. We consider several of the most significant in 
this section, including:
 unpredictable cash flows 
 
●
 unfavorable legal or regulatory judgments 
 
●
 mismanagement 
 
●
 negative perceptions/market actions. 
 
●
 Naturally, each one of these factors can extend into asset liquidity risk. 
Unexpected demand for liquidity that exceeds the capacity of an unse-
cured funding program (and any  ex ante contingent buffer) to cover obli-
gations requires action on the asset side of the balance sheet, which reverts 
to the point we made immediately above: if a firm must post assets as col-
lateral at unreasonably large discounts, or can only sell its asset portfolio 
at distressed prices in order to supplement the cash position, then the 
very sources that impact funding risk will feed directly into asset liquid-
ity problems. 
 Unpredictable cash flows 
 Unpredictable cash flows are at the centre of liquidity risks. The realities 
of the 21st century corporate environment mean that virtually every firm 
faces a certain amount of cash flow unpredictability; the greater the level 
of unpredictability, the greater the spectre of funding liquidity risk (and

--- Página 95 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
79
possibly asset liquidity risk). While some element of uncertainty can be 
managed through buffers, reserves, or extra sources of contingent financ-
ing, even the savviest companies cannot predict with precision whether 
such measures will ultimately be sufficient. 
 Since the largest global corporate and financial firms are complex 
entities, cash flow surprises can come from many sources. A review of 
a typical cash flow statement based on Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (GAAP) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
reveals areas where such uncertainties might appear, including revenues, 
costs of goods sold, receivables, payables, disposals, acquisitions, financ-
ings, and investments. We consider corporations and financial institu-
tions separately. 
 Corporations 
 Figure 4.1 illustrates a generic non-financial corporate cash flow state-
ment prepared under US GAAP, with a highlight of potential sources of 
cash flow unpredictability, including those where a company may have 
considerable, little, or no control over value received or paid. As the figure 
demonstrates, cash flow uncertainties can impact various parts of tactical 
and strategic operations. Tactically, a company might misjudge the size, 
timing, and nature of its daily business requirements or might be pre-
sented with unexpected payment demands from suppliers. Strategically, 
it might miscalculate the nature of market expansion, acquisitions, prod-
uct development, or competition. Either situation can cause the firm to 
underestimate its commitments and/or funding requirements. 
 Consider, for instance, a gain/loss on the sale of an investment. If a 
company estimates that it will realize $100 million from the sale of a 
factory and uses that figure in its forward cash flow forecasts and budg-
eting but only receives $75 million, it experiences an unexpected cash 
flow shortfall of $25 million. Or, if the firm anticipates earning $1 billion 
of operating revenue but is forced to make extra supplier payments of 
$100 million (reflected in its cost of goods sold account), it again experi-
ences an unplanned cash flow shortfall. 
 We can also consider situations where the purchase price of a strate-
gic acquisition is greater than originally budgeted, the non-discretionary 
capital expenditures of a hard asset build-out exceed targets, a cata-
strophic event damages a facility that is underinsured, and so forth. Each 
and every one of these events can create unexpected demand for cash, 
increasing funding risk pressures. 
 Cash flow unpredictability can also arise from off-balance sheet con-
tracts with uncertain value and timing. Let us first take the case of a 
company that has sold a $250 million American exercise call option on

--- Página 96 ---
80 
Liquidity Risk
an asset and has left the position unhedged. Assuming the transaction is 
not reversed at some future date, one of two scenarios will appear at any 
date prior to expiry. First, the option will move in-the-money, leading 
the buyer to exercise; this will compel the company to pay $250 million 
to buy the asset from the option buyer, and will require $250 million of 
financing. If the sole source of the $250 million is via sale of the asset, 
the company must then hope that the price when it liquidates is high 
enough to yield at least $250 million. Supposing the price yields less than 
$250 million, if the firm has other sources of funding, it will then have 
to tap those to meet the cash call. 
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings
Adjustments
Depreciation and amortization
Gain/loss on sale of investments
Gain/loss on unconsolidated affiliates
Gain/loss on minority interests
Increase/decrease in deferred income taxes
Changes in:
Accounts receivable
Inventories
Other current assets
Accounts payable
Accrued expenses
Foreign currency translation
Net cash flow from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to plant, property, and equipment
Investment in minority partnerships
Proceeds from sale of investments
Purchase of investments
Acquisitions, excluding cash acquired
Other investments
Net cash flow from investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
Increase/decrease in accounts/notes payable
Increase/decrease in accounts/notes receivable
Proceeds from issuance of long-term borrowings
Repayment of long-term borrowings
Treasury stock purchases
Common shares issued
Dividends paid
Net cash flow from financing activities
Net change in cash flows
Potential sources of
operating cash flow
uncertainty
Potential sources of
investing cash flow
uncertainty
Potential sources of
financing cash flow
uncertainty
 Figure 4.1  Generic statement of cash flows and possible sources of cash flow 
uncertainty

--- Página 97 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
81
 Alternatively, the option might remain out-of-the-money, meaning the 
company is under no obligation to raise $250 million. Again, the main point 
to emphasize is that a simple option transaction creates a contingent cash flow 
that is uncertain with regard to amount and timing. Non-financial corpora-
tions may have hundreds (and even thousands) of such derivatives (financial 
corporations typically have tens, if not hundreds, of thousands), suggesting 
considerable complexity in distilling future cash flows. It is not difficult to see 
through these simple examples how estimating cash flows with a reasonable 
degree of precision can be challenging; the process can never be completely 
precise, meaning uncertain cash flows are a reality for all companies. 
 Financial institutions 
 Similar cash flow unpredictability exists with financial institutions. 
Although the nature of operating, financing, and investing cash flows 
is slightly different, the same challenge applies: predicting future cash 
flows with a reasonable degree of precision is a tricky task. For instance, a 
bank granting a backstop or revolving credit line is providing a commit-
ment to fund in the future, at the borrower’s option; the amount and tim-
ing of draw-down are unknown at the time the contract is created. Such 
contingencies are extremely popular with companies, as they constitute 
a form of liquidity insurance that allows funds to be drawn only when 
needed. (They are also attractive to lenders as they allow fees to be earned 
even when no credit has been drawn down.) But they are fraught with 
uncertainty from a cash flow perspective because they can be accessed at 
any time and in any amount up to the maximum size of the facility. The 
same is true for standby letters of credit, which require a bank to fund in 
favor of a beneficiary if the original drawing party ceases to make pay-
ments; non-performance is, of course, an unpredictable event. 
 While various techniques can be applied to estimate the likelihood that 
these types of contingent outflows will arise (for example past experience, 
probabilities based on interest rate or default forecasts over  particular 
time horizons, and simulations under different scenarios), the results can 
never be totally precise – meaning that an accurate estimate is virtually 
impossible. The bank must then multiply this uncertainty by (tens of) 
thousands of customers that have been granted similar facilities and add 
in the effects of other uncertain cash flows from optionable derivative 
contracts, demand or call liabilities that can be withdrawn almost instan-
taneously, and so forth. 
 Let us also explore the example of a bank that funds itself with a 
large percentage of demand (or sight) deposits, which can be immedi-
ately presented for redemption by depositors. The cash flow horizon 
of such deposits is uncertain; under most situations the deposits are 
likely to remain outstanding without change (e.g., a core amount of the

--- Página 98 ---
82 
Liquidity Risk
deposit base is said to be “sticky”). However, if the bank becomes the 
subject of negative press or market rumors, more attractive alternatives 
present themselves in the financial markets, or the financial system in 
general enters a period of instability, depositors might withdraw their 
funds. The bank must then immediately repay the demand deposits – 
failure to do so will lead to a loss of confidence and a potential run on 
the bank. The cash flow behavior of the demand deposits is therefore 
uncertain. 
 As part of this process a bank must distinguish between the contrac-
tual and behavioral maturity of liabilities – this helps illustrate why esti-
mating liability cash flows can be complicated. Contractual maturity is 
the actual maturity of a liability, or the earliest (and sometimes final) 
time at which the obligation can be presented for repayment or redemp-
tion; its time horizon is explicit and definite. Behavioral maturity is 
the practical maturity of a liability, or the “realistic” time at which the 
obligation will be presented for repayment; its time horizon is unknown 
and will depend on various internal and external factors. In fact, there 
is evidence to suggest that behavioral maturity is a more accurate rep-
resentation of liability horizons. For instance, retail or institutional 
depositors holding demand obligations can technically present them 
for redemption at any time; the contractual maturity suggests they 
should be viewed as overnight funding. In practice, however, depositors 
generally roll them over continuously, with no intention of redeeming 
them unless there is a disruption or more favorable investment oppor-
tunity. The behavioral maturity thus suggests the liabilities may be very 
long-dated, complicating the estimate of future cash flows and funding 
requirements. 
 The same often occurs in the CP market, where investors in 7-, 14-, or 
30-day paper constantly renew their investments; the contractual and 
behavioral time horizons are thus quite different. The reverse can occur 
in the mortgage market, where an original contractual mortgage loan 
maturity of 10, 20, or 30 years might give way to a behavioral maturity of 
3 or 5 years as a result of property sales or refinancings. 
 An insurance company might also have to deal with multiple sources 
of cash flow uncertainty. In the first instance the insurer must attempt to 
estimate claims payments it will have to make over a given time horizon. 
The nature, magnitude, and timing of these payments are, by definition, 
uncertain. The insurer has some idea of potential cash outflows through 
the use of actuarial techniques and the development of expected loss dis-
tributions based on the law of large numbers, but an element of uncer-
tainty remains. If an unexpected event occurs, claims might be much 
larger than the expected loss computation would suggest – leading to  ex

--- Página 99 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
83
post cash deficits. Putable funding arrangements, which permit holders 
of certain liabilities to put them to the insurer at very short notice, can 
add to cash flow uncertainties; while the insurer might budget a certain 
amount of redemptions, it can never be entirely sure that it will not be 
faced with a simultaneous exodus of funding. 
 It is worth noting that some contingent and actual cash flows are 
uncertain but contain “delay” features or mechanisms that allow a firm 
to stagger any ensuing funding requirement. For instance, an insur-
ance company that has sold an investor a GIC that can be presented for 
redemption at any time with a 30-day delay faces an uncertain cash flow 
(that is, uncertainty over when (or if) the investor will present the GIC 
for redemption) – but an uncertain cash flow with a timing “cushion” 
that provides a window during which the insurer can attempt to arrange 
additional funding as needed. 
 Again, it is not difficult to see how unexpected cash flows can filter 
through the entire financial sector. A financial institution will naturally 
be reluctant to be excessively conservative and assume worst-case cash 
flow scenarios (such as instant withdrawal of all demand liabilities or 
complete funding of all contingencies) as this will result in a very inef-
ficient use of resources. Equally, it will be hesitant to be overly aggres-
sive by assuming best-case scenarios (such as no liability withdrawal and 
no funding of contingencies) as such an approach could leave it with a 
potentially large cash shortfall if the contingent events actually occur. 
Some practical estimates, however imperfect, will always be required, a 
point we consider later in the book. 
 Unfavorable legal or regulatory actions 
 There are instances when a firm might be called on to make unan-
ticipated payments to customers or other stakeholders that have been 
financially harmed or misused. For instance, a court might find a com-
pany liable for product defects, environmental damage, neglect, fraud, 
or breach of fiduciary duties. These actions can lead to what might be 
sizeable financial judgments in favor of the plaintiff(s). If this occurs, 
the firm must draw on sources of liquidity to make good any payments 
due. While it is unlikely that unfavorable legal judgments will be a “sur-
prise” – the company will, after all, have spent many months, or even 
years, preparing for the possibility of a negative legal outcome (perhaps 
establishing adequate legal reserves in the process) – the magnitude of 
the payment might indeed be a surprise. It is possible, for instance, for a 
court to award punitive damages that are multiples of any amount origi-
nally sought by plaintiffs; these can put immediate funding pressures

--- Página 100 ---
84 
Liquidity Risk
on the company, and although the right of appeal often exists, out-
comes can remain uncertain and partial payments might still have to 
be made. 
 Short of pure legal action, a firm might be forced by regulatory 
 authorities to unexpectedly recall a product, contain or clean up environ-
mental damage, or otherwise “cease and desist” from some type of harm-
ful activity. These are extraordinary events that might involve immediate 
payments, restitution, and/or closure costs, and which may temporarily 
or permanently disrupt operating activities and associated cash flows; 
both have the potential of pressuring funding. 
 As noted, there are instances when a company prepares for legal or reg-
ulatory eventualities by funding contingent legal reserves 1 or establishing 
certain types of insurance coverage. These comprise a general class of 
pre-loss financing, providing cash inflows in the event they are needed. 
However, not all companies engage in this anticipatory activity, and 
those that do might still be faced with shortfalls – meaning the potential 
for cash deficits remains. 
 Mismanagement 
 A firm that fails to properly manage its financial affairs as a result of 
inexperience, incompetence, or negligence might ultimately experience 
liquidity problems. Diligent discharge of financial responsibilities is a 
key function of executives operating under the direction and oversight 
of board directors; failure to perform this function adequately can lead 
to errors, bad decisions, or behavior that can jeopardize the cash position 
and create liquidity pressures. 
 Financial management is a complicated discipline that is  characterized 
by a certain amount of unpredictability; dynamic corporate opera-
tions, volatile markets, risk, and human behavior combine to create 
this  unpredictability. That said, disciplined management can lead to 
prudent handling of assets and liabilities, while lax management can 
do precisely the opposite. If a company’s executives accidentally or 
 deliberately fail to adequately consider the liquidity process or do not 
create a proper control environment to deal with liquidity risks, they 
may expose the company to an undue amount of cash flow unpredict-
ability and pressure. 2 
 Negative perceptions/market actions 
 Reputation in the marketplace – among investors, creditors, regulators, 
and rating agencies – is of paramount importance to all firms, espe-
cially financial and non-financial service companies that rely heavily on

--- Página 101 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
85
relationships, goodwill, and intellectual property to generate revenues. 
Defending reputation is an important executive management function: 
success leads to stakeholder confidence and, when coupled with solid 
business results, can translate into a higher stock price, improved credit 
rating, and lower cost of capital. The reverse is also true. Any doubt 
regarding the reputation of a company can prove costly – not only in 
terms of lost business opportunities, but in actual instances of increased 
funding pressure, higher funding costs, and, in the extreme, financial 
distress. 3 
 If a company is impacted by negative perceptions, its business might 
begin to suffer. Once a problem has begun, the specific reasons for 
the negative view may be less important than the uncertainty that is 
 introduced into corporate operations and cash flows. Negative perception 
that leads to particular market actions by external stakeholders – such as 
withdrawal of capital or cancellation of financing – can thus be viewed as 
a direct source of funding liability risk; while causes may be endogenous, 
response is exogenous. 
 When depositors, creditors, lenders, or suppliers are no longer com-
fortable with aspects of a firm, its business, management, or strategy, 
they become nervous and pull back on the supply of capital, demand a 
greater premium for any capital they are still willing to supply, or rene-
gotiate terms that place additional financial strain on corporate cash 
flows. Any one of these can lead to unanticipated demands for fund-
ing. For instance, it is not unusual for a company with a bank credit 
facility to feature covenants or downgrade clauses requiring repayment 
of funds if a credit rating is downgraded or the stock price falls below 
some predefined level. If negative perceptions in the marketplace are 
enough to cause either event, a company might then be obligated to 
repay a portion of its facility: it will have an immediate, and unex-
pected, demand for funding. News of the downgrade and partial pay-
down might exacerbate negative perceptions, driving the stock price 
down further, leading to the cancellation of more facilities, generating 
additional credit downgrades, and so on, in a continuing downward 
spiral. 
 Exogenous Considerations 
 Not all funding difficulties are endogenous. There are instances when a 
firm might not be facing any significant degree of unpredictability in its 
cash flows, or be the subject of legal actions, or be impacted by misman-
agement or negative market perceptions, but still find that it is affected 
by funding liquidity risks and associated problems. Forces at work in the

--- Página 102 ---
86 
Liquidity Risk
macro-operating environment might leave a firm (or an entire sector or 
industry) without access to the funding it requires. 
 Macro-economic or sector difficulties, particularly among suppliers of 
liquidity, can be a catalyst. For instance, if the banking system at large 
has suffered large losses in its credit risk activities, it may reduce its credit 
extensions to mid-grade companies or require that they collateralize their 
borrowings; such actions are likely to increase the cost of funding for 
all borrowers in the category, even though their creditworthiness might 
remain unchanged; for some companies the reduced credit or the col-
lateralization requirements could create liquidity strains. Or, if banks 
have concerns about a particular sector (believing, perhaps, that too 
much credit has been extended over a relatively short period), they may 
begin reducing or cancelling facilities across the board; each individual 
company in that sector, regardless of credit strength, will feel the impact 
of the funding withdrawal. Similarly, if institutional investors in CP or 
MTNs discover opportunities to invest in other assets that provide a more 
attractive risk/return proposition, they may reallocate capital  en masse , 
leaving companies that rely on such rollover facilities without a steady 
supply of financing. 
 It is worth noting that some institutions actually gain funding liquid-
ity during periods of market stress. When a financial system is in the 
midst of panic selling and a general flight-to-quality, there is evidence 
to suggest that the largest banks in the system actually gain retail and 
institutional deposits from parties that wish to place funds in “safe 
haven” instruments. This does not mean that all banks are recipients of 
the flight-to-quality largesse, but the leading banks – those that might 
be regarded as “too big to fail” within the local financial system – might 
indeed receive excess inflows (indeed, this was partially borne out dur-
ing the last financial crisis). During market crises these banks might 
not even have to persuade depositors to increase their deposit flows; it 
may happen quite naturally. This has the interesting effect of allowing 
banks to increase their holdings of other investments (perhaps liquid 
investments, although there might be little need to do so if their own 
funding liquidity position is being revitalized by the flight-to-quality 
effect) and extend additional credits on a selective basis. Indeed, certain 
empirical research 4 has suggested that, as long as the demand for liquid-
ity from depositors and borrowers is not highly correlated, banks may 
be willing to provide higher-rated corporate borrowers with additional 
backup lines of credit during times of market stress, at competitive all-in 
funding rates. The point to emphasize is that exogenous dislocations do 
not always damage the financing access of all institutions. That said, 
the conservative approach suggests that any beneficial effects accruing

--- Página 103 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
87
to a select group of institutions be ignored when considering stress 
scenarios. 
 The Nature of Funding Problems 
 When liquidity difficulties increase for one of the reasons cited above, a 
firm turns to its funding program in order to address the problem. In the 
normal course of affairs, and assuming the firm’s financing program is 
both comprehensive and stable, obligations can be met without difficulty. 
Access to incremental or rollover liquidity is gained through one or more 
of the liability sources referenced in the last chapter, necessary payments 
are made, and the firm continues to operate as it normally would. There 
are, however, instances when the funding program does not function as 
it should. This exposes the firm to risk of loss – directly, by forcing it to 
pay an increased cost of funds to secure alternate funds, or indirectly, by 
forcing it to sell or encumber assets (a topic we consider in the next chap-
ter). Although there are various reasons why access to funding might be 
temporarily or permanently affected, we consider some of the most com-
mon in this section, including:
 rollover problems 
 
●
 lack of market access 
 
●
 commitment withdrawal 
 
●
 excessive concentrations. 
 
●
 While each one of these difficulties is generally endogenous, problems 
can be compounded by the presence of exogenous forces. 
 Rollover problems 
 Difficulties rolling over, or renewing, credit can be an early sign of fund-
ing liquidity pressure. When credit providers – whether they are inves-
tors in a company’s short-term securities, lenders providing evergreen 
revolvers, or suppliers providing trade credit through payables – are 
unwilling to roll over or extend a firm’s maturing liabilities as they come 
due, or are only willing to do so at sharply higher costs, a firm begins to 
encounter true funding problems. In fact, these can be very difficult to 
manage as negative news travels quickly and rollovers must be dealt with 
promptly. 
 Problems are generally attributable to actual or perceived problems 
with the company. If creditors believe that the firm’s creditworthiness 
has become impaired, they will be reluctant to renew their funding

--- Página 104 ---
88 
Liquidity Risk
obligations without extracting a higher premium or demanding security 
in the form of asset collateral. In more serious situations they may be 
unwilling to provide capital regardless of premium or collateral. Banks 
responsible for arranging short-term backup financing might be morally 
or contractually required to replace maturing liabilities through backup 
lines or swing lines. This can be a complicated situation, as other credi-
tors in the marketplace might view a company that is forced to draw 
on bank facilities as a substitute in a negative light. If perceptions are 
not aggressively managed at this early stage, broader loss of confidence 
might follow. 
 While most rollover problems tend to be company-specific, and 
therefore a direct reflection of the solvency and liquidity risk of a par-
ticular firm, they can also be influenced by external forces, includ-
ing those that create negative market conditions for all companies in 
a country, ratings category, or industry sector. As noted above, while 
a firm’s credit quality might not have deteriorated, it might still have 
trouble with rollovers if the market is in a state of turmoil. A financial 
crisis that causes flight-to-quality can lead to substantial withdrawal of 
capital from the short-term corporate funding markets. Alternatively, 
if investors are drawn to other investment alternatives that provide a 
higher return on invested capital, companies seeking to roll over their 
funding might have to do so at higher yields – even if credit quality is 
stable. 
 Lack of market access 
 Another common funding problem relates to lack of market access – 
 simply an inability to utilize a particular financing market at a particular 
point in time. We have described the broad array of debt-related instru-
ments that are available to companies of varying characteristics and 
credit qualities. While not all sources of financing are available to all 
companies at all times, well-managed firms strive to arrange and use the 
largest number of funding conduits. For instance, a company may estab-
lish a shelf registration program so that it can issue bonds on relatively 
short notice, arrange for a committed bank facility to be drawn down 
seasonally (or as needed in a crisis), and create a CP program (backed by 
bank swing lines) to tap into short-term funds and roll them over when 
needed. However, not all companies have the ability to access all markets 
of their choice – either initially or on an ongoing basis – and this can 
constrain corporate operations. 
 Let us first consider initial funding access. The global debt marketplace 
allows access based on the characteristics of each individual firm. In

--- Página 105 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
89
general, larger companies have better access opportunities than smaller 
ones, public companies better access than private ones, and  creditworthy 
companies better access than less creditworthy ones. As noted in 
Chapter 3, the CP/ECP and short-term unsecured debt markets are gen-
erally reserved for the largest and strongest public companies, meaning 
that smaller, lower rated, or private companies are barred from access. The 
same is often true in the unsecured loan market: despite earning lower 
returns, banks often favor lending to companies with solid credit ratings, 
meaning weak firms may be prevented from tapping another important 
source of funds (unless they are willing and able to post collateral as secu-
rity, an act that reduces financial flexibility). 
 Private firms, though potentially very creditworthy, may be unwilling 
to provide the marketplace with proper financial disclosure and might 
thus be prevented from gaining financing on favorable terms. Small 
firms, even if they are excellent credits, are often considered unacceptable 
candidates for unsecured financing by virtue of their scale. Even good 
companies that are reluctant to agree to specific bank loan covenants 
might be unable to arrange proper access. 
 We must also consider funding access over time, which can deteriorate 
if a company’s fortunes begin to weaken: avenues of funding generally 
shut down when the market is concerned about future ability to perform. 
Firms enjoying access to the money, capital, or loan markets might find 
some sources are cut off, while others become too expensive as credit 
quality deteriorates. Not surprisingly, decreased flexibility in accessing 
different markets, instruments, and lenders can lead to, or compound, 
funding liquidity risks, particularly when the market at large becomes 
aware of difficulties – a point we consider in the next section. 
 Commitment withdrawal 
 It is no surprise that the withdrawal of funds by suppliers of capital leads 
directly to funding liquidity risk problems. If a firm has not previously 
experienced withdrawals, it might simply be forced to bear increased 
costs as it arranges more expensive alternatives. If it has already been 
weakened by other facility withdrawals, additional cancellations can 
lead to more damaging problems, including instances of financial dis-
tress. Funding withdrawal can result from breach of covenants, triggers, 
or conditions precedent, and cause the supplier of funds to terminate 
a commitment (or refuse to renew the commitment when it comes 
due, which is akin to the rollover problem mentioned above). It may 
also arise from a perceived deterioration in credit quality: if lenders or 
investors are concerned about a firm’s ability to remain current on its

--- Página 106 ---
90 
Liquidity Risk
obligations – for reasons that include, but may not be limited to, those 
we have already indicated – they may simply withdraw commitments as 
they fall due. 
 For example, if a company is able to borrow through an unsecured 
revolving credit facility only by maintaining minimum net worth, 
maximum leverage, and minimum credit ratings, a breach of any one of 
these might lead the arranging bank to cancel the facility and perhaps 
demand repayment of any funds already drawn down. As the company 
attempts to secure new sources of funding to replace what has been 
lost, it might encounter difficulties with other capital providers – news 
of a cancelled facility can travel quickly. This can set off an entire chain 
of negative events, as we shall note later. The same might occur with 
other types of financing facilities. For instance, an investment bank 
may refuse to act as dealer or placement agent on a company’s MTN 
program if it is concerned about the company’s viability. While the 
program may not be technically cancelled, the effective result is the 
same: the bank charged with arranging funds simply refuses to par-
ticipate in the intermediation or agenting process, meaning a source of 
financing is lost. 
 Excessive concentrations 
 Any of the funding problems we have cited above can be exacerbated by 
the existence of product, market, or lender funding concentrations. A firm 
that is overly reliant on a single product, marketplace, or lender/inves-
tor magnifies its funding liquidity risk because closure of, or withdrawal 
by, the concentrated source leaves a firm without access to a significant 
means of financing. Great effort might be required to replace what has 
been lost. For instance, a firm that derives 50 percent of its funding from 
CP, or the offshore term loan market, or a single bank, might be unable to 
replace, at a reasonable cost and within a short time frame, the necessary 
financing should that 50 percent disappear. Whether the loss occurs for 
endogenous or exogenous reasons is less relevant than the fact that the 
funds are no longer available. 
 In some cases concentrations can arise through changes in historical 
relationships or correlations. Although a firm might believe it has diver-
sified its funding program by spreading its requirement across markets, 
products, and institutions, a change in systemic factors in the market 
environment can lead to a change in correlations: products, markets, and 
lenders might all be affected by the same negative news and react in the 
same fashion, creating concentrations for the borrowing firm. Excessive 
concentration is not a theoretical concept, but a real problem that

--- Página 107 ---
Funding Liquidity Risk 
91
periodically impacts firms, particularly during times of widespread mar-
ket stress; we shall consider in subsequent chapters the financial damage 
that can be wrought by concentrated funding. 
 The Effects of Funding Liquidity Risk 
 The effects of funding liquidity risk are generally felt most acutely by 
financial firms operating in the “high liquidity risk” portion of the spec-
trum we introduced in Chapter 2. This is especially true for securities 
firms and other highly leveraged financial institutions that lack a core 
base of depositors and are reliant primarily on the wholesale market for 
funds. The effects of exposure might be compounded by the speed of 
news/price diffusion and institutional reaction; while a financial firm 
might appear to have sufficient liquidity based on normal market condi-
tions, that liquidity could evaporate almost instantly. 
 To summarize aspects of our discussion in this chapter, we consider 
that in the normal course of business a company will be able to meet 
its expected and unexpected obligations without difficulty. There 
are, however, instances when funding uncertainties can arise. These 
might be due to unexpected cash flows emanating from balance sheet 
or off-balance sheet activities, a credit downgrade, some unfavorable 
legal action, general financial mismanagement, or negative perceptions 
circulating in the marketplace. Any one of these can lead to funding 
pressures. 
 The intensity of the funding pressure will depend largely on how the 
company reacts to the difficulties, and how external parties perceive the 
problem. Under the most benign scenario the firm can cope adequately 
by drawing on alternative sources of funds, redirecting activities, tem-
porarily reducing its own commitments or expansion, and convincing 
the marketplace that problems are manageable. Under a more serious 
scenario the firm might succumb to deeper funding pressures, experi-
encing rollover problems and partial or total loss of market or product 
access. When this occurs the firm suffers the economic effect of fund-
ing liquidity risk. At a minimum this involves sourcing new funds at a 
higher cost, generating a loss. In more serious situations it might lead 
to a greater economic price: forcing a pledge or outright sale of assets 
in order to generate funds. In the most extreme cases funding liquidity 
risk problems, coupled with the burden of asset liquidity risk difficulties, 
can give rise to the liquidity spirals and financial distress scenarios we 
consider in Chapter 6. 
 Figure 4.2 summarizes aspects of our discussion in this chapter.

--- Página 108 ---
92 
Liquidity Risk
Exogenous
forces
Economic loss
Lack of financial
flexibility
Rollover
problems
Lack of market
access
Commitment
withdrawal
Excessive
concentrations
Funding liquidity risk problems
Financial distress
Unpredictable
cash flows
Unfavorable
legal/regulatory
judgments
Mismanagement
Negative 
perceptions/
market action
Sources of funding liquidity risk
 Figure 4.2  Funding liquidity risks

--- Página 109 ---
93
 5 
 Asset Liquidity Risk 
 As we continue with our discussion of the theoretical and practical nature 
of liquidity risk problems, we turn our attention to asset liquidity risk, 
which we have defined as the risk of loss arising from an inability to con-
vert assets into cash at carrying value when needed. Asset liquidity risk 
is sometimes known as market liquidity risk, since the process relates to 
the market price that is assigned to, and can be obtained by, a portfolio 
of assets. In fact, the market value of an asset has two primary sources of 
risk: the uncertainty of asset returns (that is, pure market risk) and the 
uncertainty of liquidity (that is, pure liquidity risk); the two at any time 
may be strongly correlated. 
 Since a firm must periodically liquidate assets or pledge them as col-
lateral to obtain financing, asset prices surface as a central element of 
asset liquidity risk management. Naturally, a firm with robust operating 
cash flows and adequate funding sources, which can hold all of its assets 
until maturity, faces no asset liquidity risk. Risk is injected when oper-
ating cash flows are inadequate or mismatched; funding sources prove 
insufficient, unpredictable, or too expensive; and asset prices and holding 
periods become uncertain. Since these dimensions represent the realities 
of the corporate world, it is reasonable to assume that asset liquidity risk 
impacts the majority of firms, albeit to varying degrees. 
 To cover unexpected payments or obligations, a firm must preserve 
some amount of truly liquid assets on its balance sheet. For most firms 
operating under most market scenarios, assets are a “backstop,” or safety 
measure, in managing cash flows. As noted in the last chapter, unse-
cured funding arrangements form the first line of defence after operating 
cash flows; this is true because selling or encumbering productive assets 
reduces financial flexibility and detracts from a firm’s ability to generate 
future operating income. 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 110 ---
94 
Liquidity Risk
 While borrowing decreases a firm’s net income by increasing interest 
expense, the sale of assets, particularly those that are non-marketable or 
are critical to a firm’s existence, can damage enterprise value. If assets 
must be sold at a reasonably large discount as a result of illiquidity, and 
the operating cash flows they once produced are sacrificed, enterprise 
value can become permanently impaired. This is an especially critical 
issue for non-financial institutions because it may not be easy to replace 
unique and productive assets at a reasonable cost. The same is true with 
asset pledges: though using assets to secure loans is not as drastic as an 
outright asset sale, the action reduces a firm’s financial flexibility. Thus, 
the sale or pledge of productive assets must be viewed as a safety net, 
used only if operating cash flows are inadequate and unsecured funding 
strategies prove too expensive or are otherwise unavailable. This does not 
suggest that firms cannot and should not use assets as a liquidity risk 
management tool, but simply that they may only choose to do so if other 
alternatives are too expensive or cannot be accessed. 
 Knowing this, it comes as no surprise to note that diligent manage-
ment of assets is extremely important. Unfortunately, a firm might be 
susceptible to a number of potential problems, including lack of asset 
marketability, lack of unencumbered assets, excessive concentrations, 
asset misvaluation, and inappropriate collateralization. We shall consider 
each point below. 
 Before doing so, let us first discuss liquid and illiquid markets for assets, 
with a general focus on financial assets. A liquid market for assets allows 
participants to execute large sales or pledge transactions as needed, with-
out impacting prices. A liquid market features no meaningful difference 
between realizable and carrying value, which reduces (or even eliminates) 
the prospects of an unexpected cash shortfall through sale or pledging. 
An illiquid market for assets is one where large transactions cannot be 
executed without a significant price impact or time delay. As noted in the 
last chapter, cost and time are key factors in the management of liquidity. 
There are cases when a firm can liquidate a large position in an otherwise 
illiquid market by atomizing the transaction into a series of smaller ones 
that can be absorbed by the market without materially impacting price 
levels. But, as with funding liquidity management, asset liquidity must 
often be managed with a degree of speed, which can be challenging dur-
ing times of market stress. Immediate access to cash is generally an over-
arching goal, so the time dimension becomes as important as the cost 
dimension; the price discount that must be absorbed for immediacy can 
create a loss. Indeed, there is considerable evidence that this happens in the 
financial markets (during the Long Term Capital Management/Russia cri-
sis of 1998 and the financial crisis of 2007–2008 to cite two examples). The

--- Página 111 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
95
concept is sometimes expressed in terms of “slippage,” where large asset 
purchases are filled at increasing offer prices, while large asset sales are 
filled at decreasing bid prices. We consider this in greater detail below. 
 Product fungibility, or the ability to substitute one asset with another, 
is a determining factor in an asset’s liquidity. An asset with substitutes 
offers alternatives that can induce greater activity but can also fractionalize 
pools of liquidity. 1 Market structure, or the way in which market activity 
is conducted, is another influential factor. In a quote-driven dealer mar-
ket, dealers give prices to brokers/traders who can then buy or sell; in an 
order-driven auction market, orders are grouped in the books of principals 
or agents, and are then matched according to certain rules. There is evi-
dence to suggest that quote-driven markets offer more immediate execu-
tion, and thus generate necessary liquidity under certain scenarios, while 
order-driven markets offer more efficient price discovery and transparency 
and are thus better able to provide liquidity under alternate scenarios. 2 
 Supporting structure and regulations may also influence market liquidity. 
Asset markets that permit, or provide for, short selling, repurchase agree-
ments/collateralized lending, interdealer broking, listed/OTC derivative 
contracts, onshore/offshore dealing, and standardized settlement terms 
can help create two-way interest and trading volume – and, thus, market 
liquidity. Although the volatility associated with supporting structures 
might increase, the benefits obtained from tighter pricing and larger deal-
ing size might outweigh such “costs.” Heterogeneity in both the dealer and 
customer base can help reinforce different views and create more robust 
two-way markets and an expansion of volume and dealing activity. 
 Asset liquidity is also impacted by transaction costs (that is, the higher 
the costs, the lower the level of activity, and vice versa) and information 
availability (the greater the depth of information on statistics, volatility, 
earnings, the more inclined participants are to make buy/sell decisions, 
and vice versa). When transparency declines, only informed partici-
pants are willing to increase their participation; when transparency 
increases, liquidity can accumulate as previously uninformed investors 
start participating. Market liquidity is also shaped by the behavior and 
views of participants. These can include preferred time horizons, levels 
of risk aversion, reactions to market information, and future expectations 
regarding micro- and macro-economic variables. For example, those with 
strong short-term views are more apt to participate, increasing market 
activity, and those lacking a strong view may exit or remain sidelined. 
Those that are risk-averse may be less inclined to join, decreasing activity, 
while those that are risk-seeking may be eager to join. Expectations are 
self-fulfilling: when dealers or customers view a market as being liquid 
they are more inclined to join, helping boost liquidity. The reverse is also

--- Página 112 ---
96 
Liquidity Risk
true. Knowledge of market flows can also affect liquidity: the mere threat 
of large asset disposals by one or more institutions can freeze activity and 
cause a sharp drop in asset prices. This “overhang” phenomenon was in 
evidence throughout the financial crisis of 2007–2008, when continuous 
deleveraging by major financial institutions, particularly in structured 
credit assets, created “offered only” conditions and a complete lack of 
liquidity. All of these factors can influence asset market liquidity, which 
is particularly critical for financial assets that a firm might hold in its 
liquidity warehouse. To be sure, a distinction must be drawn between 
“normal” market conditions and “stressed” market conditions. Whilst the 
ability to sell assets may be possible in normal markets under the condi-
tions and constrains noted above, they may be severely curtailed – or 
disappear entirely – in a stressed market environment. 
 Sources of Asset Liquidity Risk 
 The specific sources of risk we have considered in the last chapter can 
easily be extended to create or intensify asset liquidity risks. Unexpected 
demand for cash is at the heart of asset liquidity risk, but becomes a 
more prominent concern once unsecured funding alternatives have been 
exhausted. Again, obligations that are anticipated can generally be accom-
modated within the scope of a firm’s standard funding plan. But if sudden 
demand for cash – caused by the unpredictable cash flows, unfavorable 
legal, regulatory, or management actions, or negative market perceptions 
we referenced in the last chapter – cannot be met by a firm’s normal and 
contingency financing plans, then asset liquidity risk assumes a larger 
role in the financial risk process. Endogenous factors that consume avail-
able funding thus fuel asset pressures. 
 Exogenous Considerations 
 Reverting to our discussion on exogenous factors, a firm can manage its 
asset liquidity in a prudent manner, but still encounter problems related 
to external effects and actions. This is most often expressed in terms 
of marketability, concentration, and misvaluation. For instance, a firm 
might believe that its portfolios of receivables or emerging market bonds 
are marketable, but stress within the economic or financial system might 
cause demand for such assets to disappear. If this occurs, what might have 
rightly been considered a marketable asset is now partly or wholly unmar-
ketable. This tends to happen primarily with instruments that lack the 
flight-to-quality characteristics of industrialized government bonds and 
the highest rated corporate obligations. While high-quality assets rarely

--- Página 113 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
97
become unmarketable (perhaps only for very short periods of time dur-
ing extreme market dislocations, as in 2007–2008), the same is not true 
for other classes of assets. The temporary or permanent disappearance of 
asset market markers directly affects marketability. An asset that might 
have traded at a small discount to carrying value in most market circum-
stances may now only be sold at a deep discount, dramatically reducing 
the amount of cash that can be realized. 
 The effects of asset concentration can also intensify in the face of an 
external dislocation. A firm might not believe that it has a concentrated 
position if its holding is equal to one day’s turnover, but if systemic char-
acteristics change, causing liquidity to decrease to the point where the 
position constitutes 20 days’ turnover, the firm is left with a concentrated 
position – it will take 20 days, rather than one day, to realize cash, mean-
ing a greater price discount when trying to sell or pledge the position. 
 If market dislocations cause a change in volatility or correlation, then 
assets – particularly those that are complex or model-driven – can become 
misvalued, sometimes by considerable amounts. These systemic effects can 
feed through to the collateral taken by institutions to secure their credit 
extensions to others; this is especially true in the case of correlated credit 
exposures. Although a firm might consciously take collateral with value 
that is uncorrelated with the general performance of its counterparties 
based on historical correlations, relationships might change and cause the 
value of the collateral to deteriorate precisely as counterparties weaken. 
These effects illustrate again the joint nature of credit, market, and liquid-
ity risks; stress events tend to reveal the true degree of interrelationship. 
 Liquidity misvaluations might also be influenced, or compounded, by 
the existence of an imbalance – a temporary event that suspends tradi-
tional supply and demand equilibrium in the marketplace at large. In a 
liquid market, “negative feedback” traders act as buyers when asset prices 
fall and thus dominate activity; this tends to dampen market price fluc-
tuations and ensures liquidity does not completely disappear during mar-
ket shocks. When “positive feedback” traders are in control, the situation 
changes: they sell as prices fall, meaning the market becomes increasingly 
one-way, and liquidity erodes. The degree of positive feedback influenc-
ing a market is based on several factors, including stop loss rules (selling 
when certain levels are hit on the downside), leverage (selling assets to 
repay borrowings), arbitrage limitations (being unable to replicate nega-
tive feedback arbitrage trades that might help stabilize the market) and 
dynamic hedging (creating feedback loops by selling puts and shorting 
the underlying). 
 Stable market liquidity requires that investors not sell assets simultane-
ously, but rational behavior suggests that selling should be done before

--- Página 114 ---
98 
Liquidity Risk
disequilibrium sets in; no one, after all, wants to be the last one “head-
ing for the exit.” In response to instances of significant one-way selling, 
market makers might simply refuse to quote, creating a liquidity imbal-
ance (though market makers may have an obligation to quote two-way 
markets, in practice they tend to walk away when the market is in severe 
turmoil or distress). Liquidity holes, a specific imbalance that can be dif-
ficult to gauge, can arise from information asymmetries, where market 
makers possess or lack information that causes them to bid or offer more 
or less aggressively than might be expected. If a liquidity hole arises, trad-
ing may be suspended temporarily, meaning that a large seller might hit a 
bid that is well below its carrying value (or even expected value). 
 In certain instances stop loss orders or limit orders can influence price 
and volume patterns and create slippage, imbalances, and liquidity holes. 
This is especially true if there is a “bunching” of orders around a particu-
lar trigger price; once the trigger is hit and dealers attempt to fill orders, 
price patterns might deviate rapidly and sharply from what might other-
wise be expected. (For instance, during the 1998 Russia/hedge fund crisis, 
dealers with US$/yen carry trades saw the dollar fall from ¥131 to ¥112 
and then close at ¥119 in just two days, through short covering of yen 
positions. Much of this occurred when firms with leveraged carry trades 
hit similar stop loss and barrier prices that forced automatic liquidation 
of long dollars.) Liquidity traps can also appear: one-way markets may 
temporarily show signs of two-way business, luring others into the mar-
ketplace and creating the illusion of strong liquidity. Once in, however, 
dealers might see liquidity erode and the market return to its normal one-
way state; exiting from the trap might prove extremely costly. 
 The Nature of Asset Problems 
 In the event a firm cannot reasonably and economically access enough 
unsecured funds to meet obligations, it must rely on its asset portfolio 
to make up for the shortfall. As outlined in our previous discussion, the 
focus turns to:
 pledging unencumbered assets to secure loans 
 
●
 selling liquid assets from the liquidity warehouse, typically in order of 
 
●
marketability 
 securitizing assets 
 
●
 selling additional illiquid assets, including fixed assets and business 
 
●
units. 
 In many cases these solutions can be implemented successfully; although 
they might lead to some loss of flexibility and economic value, the

--- Página 115 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
99
chances of a firm encountering severe financial distress remain small. In 
other instances more significant problems arise, creating stress. This can 
occur when pledging requirements are so large that they severely restrict 
financial flexibility, assets can only be sold at a deep discount into highly 
illiquid markets, or securitization proves too time-consuming to provide 
a viable cash solution. 
 In this section we consider the nature of five common asset problems, 
including:
 lack of asset marketability 
 
●
 lack of unencumbered assets 
 
●
 excessive concentrations 
 
●
 misvalued assets 
 
●
 insufficient collateralization. 
 
●
 These internal factors might be intensified by the external factors cited 
above. Since many of the asset-related solutions to cope with unexpected 
obligations form the second line of defence after unsecured funding alter-
natives have been exhausted, institutions must manage the process force-
fully. Failure to do so might ultimately lead to the joint asset/liability 
complications we consider in the next chapter. 
 Lack of asset marketability 
 Lack of asset marketability is a core issue in asset liquidity risk. A firm that 
holds assets that cannot be readily transferred, at or near carrying value, 
injects structural illiquidity into its operations and might suffer consid-
erable losses if it needs to dispose of assets rapidly. Financial contracts 
that are transferable might still not be readily marketable. This generally 
applies to assets that are complex, customized, or risky (for instance, a 
collateralized debt obligation residual, an emerging market bond, or some 
other structured note valued by a model), or that take too much time, 
effort, and/or legal negotiation to transfer. Such instruments have a lim-
ited base of buyers and, by extension, limited marketability. 
 The relative lack of marketability can be discerned by the liquidity pre-
mium investors demand for holding an asset: the less liquid the asset, the 
greater the premium. (For instance, during the Russia/hedge fund crisis 
of 1998, the liquidity differential between on and off-the-run assets with 
the same duration and credit risk was as large as 35 basis points (bps); dur-
ing the financial crisis of 2007–2008, the difference between AAA gov-
ernment bonds and AAA corporate bonds was as wide as several hundred 
bps). 3 Financial contracts that are created to be non-transferable and non-
saleable prior to maturity (such as a non-qualifying private placement)

--- Página 116 ---
100 
Liquidity Risk
must be considered completely unmarketable and illiquid. Physical assets 
such as property, plant, and equipment might have a degree of saleability 
but obviously cannot be considered readily marketable. Selling a tract of 
unused land, an office building, or a semiconductor factory might take 
months, if not years, to negotiate and conclude. 
 Any firm that possesses an excessive amount of such assets cannot sell 
what it owns, and is thus constrained in its ability to generate a reason-
able amount of cash in a short time frame. In some cases this shortcom-
ing can be offset or mitigated by pledging otherwise illiquid assets for 
additional borrowings, but success depends on two factors: the assets 
are not already encumbered (for example, the factory might already be 
secured by a claim held by the bank that provided the original construc-
tion funding); and the loan-to-value discount is not so large that it yields 
insufficient proceeds (for instance, a bank might only lend $50 million 
against a $100 million asset, rather than the $90 million the firm thought 
it could obtain). Any balance sheet that is burdened by a large amount of 
unmarketable assets runs a high degree of asset liquidity risk – a problem 
that becomes very evident in the event of forced pledging or disposals. 
 It is important to note that asset marketability is a dynamic characteris-
tic that can change over time. In some instances assets might be market-
able but then suffer from a problem that renders them less marketable or 
completely unmarketable. A period of “unmarketability” might last for 
weeks, months, or even years; in more extreme cases saleability can dis-
appear permanently. The reasons are typically event-specific, but might 
commence with an accumulation of speculative positions by institutional 
investors and financial intermediaries. A reversal in economic strength, 
or the establishment of regulations or trading curbs, can alter market 
dynamics and create investor and intermediary losses. These losses can 
lead to a wholesale revaluation of assets, generating further write-downs 
and gradual or rapid exit. Subsequent activity may not reappear for a con-
siderable period of time. Consider, for instance, that high-yield bonds 
were quite marketable during the mid- to late-1980s when issuer demand 
for capital was high and investor demand for above-market yields was 
strong. The collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert in 1990, negative con-
notations associated with high-yield bonds and hostile takeovers, and a 
significant US recession and period of credit defaults rendered high-yield 
bonds virtually unmarketable. Investors needing to sell or pledge their 
holdings suffered significant price discounts as liquidity evaporated. Not 
until economic growth restarted in 1993 did the saleability of high-yield 
bonds recover. They remained actively traded until the credit crisis and 
recession of 2001, at which time marketability subsided, only to return 
with economic recovery and corporate growth in 2003. The financial

--- Página 117 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
101
crisis of 2007–2008 also provides ample evidence of this effect: prior to 
the crisis, short-term obligations and medium-term bonds of banks and 
bank holding companies enjoyed good liquidity and relatively tight credit 
spreads to their relevant government benchmarks. During and after the 
crisis liquidity all but disappeared as investors lost faith in, and appetite 
for, any such obligations – even those with the highest credit ratings and/
or implicit or explicit government backing. Liquidity slowly began return-
ing for the best of these bank issuers in 2010 and 2011 – meaning that the 
market for bank liabilities was effectively illiquid for three to five years. 
 In some instances marketability never returns in a meaningful way, as in 
the instance of perpetual floating rate notes (FRNs) issued by banks in the 
mid-1980s. Although the instruments were quite liquid for several years, 
a change in the market environment in late 1986 caused certain investors 
to withdraw. Concerns over regulatory treatment of perpetuals in bank 
capital computations and rumors related to the exit of various market 
makers created considerable investor nervousness. Buying ceased, prices 
fell, dealers and investors abandoned the market, and liquidity vanished: 
the asset marketability that once existed never returned. Similar lack of 
marketability has occurred in other areas, such as European currency unit 
(ECU) bonds, Swedish CP, unrated US CP, and certain types of collateral-
ized mortgage obligations and synthetic collateralized debt obligations. 
 Lack of unencumbered assets 
 We already know that a firm may choose to borrow against its assets 
instead of selling them. By retaining ownership of productive assets and 
granting creditor liens against them, the firm preserves its ability to gen-
erate revenues and build enterprise value. For instance, an auto manufac-
turer might pledge its assembly line as collateral against a loan rather than 
sell it to a third party. Although it temporarily loses control (though not 
ownership 4 ) of the assembly line and thus constrains its financial flex-
ibility, it still benefits from the productive qualities of the infrastructure 
and retains an ability to generate direct revenues. When the company 
reverts to a normal state of liquidity, it repays the loan and regains posses-
sion of its plant. The same is true of a bank holding a portfolio of invest-
ment securities; the bank can sell them in the marketplace to generate the 
cash it needs, but may prefer to pledge the investments to another bank 
through the repurchase agreement market. When its liquidity returns to 
a desired level, it simply unwinds the repo. 
 These concepts are important when considering another potential asset 
liquidity problem: lack of unencumbered assets. A firm that has pledged 
the majority or totality of its assets to creditors decreases its ability to

--- Página 118 ---
102 
Liquidity Risk
manage liquidity-related problems: not only does it reduce its financial 
flexibility by limiting borrowing capacity, it effectively loses control over 
its balance sheet. It cannot dispose of any of its assets, as the right to do 
so belongs to the creditors holding liens. A firm in such a state is fully 
leveraged and presents a considerable credit risk. The need to make any 
additional unexpected payments and the slightest difficulty in obtaining 
funding from conventional sources leave it with little room to maneu-
ver – meaning the likelihood of financial distress increases considerably. 
 Excessive concentrations 
 Significant asset liquidity risk problems can arise from concentrations. We 
can define a concentration as a position in an asset that is large relative to 
the daily turnover activity in the marketplace, or one that is large relative 
to a firm’s own financial position. The degree of concentration depends 
on the specific asset, market, and turnover (as well as supporting activi-
ties in the off-balance sheet markets). For instance, a 10 percent share of a 
$10 million asset that trades an average of $100,000 per day might be con-
sidered excessively concentrated, while a 10 percent share of a $5 billion 
asset that trades $350 million per day in physical form and $150 million in 
derivative form might not be. A $1 billion position in a US Treasury issue 
might not be concentrated, while a $100 million position in a BB-rated 
junk bond might well be. There is thus no set rule on what constitutes a 
concentrated position, although a reasonable “rule of thumb” suggests that 
a position that comprises more than a few days of average trading volume 
under normal market conditions might be considered excessive. In addi-
tion, to be truly concentrated the position must be significant enough in 
the scope of a company’s operations to create a meaningful financial loss. 
When a firm holds a concentration, it might not be able to easily sell at the 
carrying value in order to generate cash. Indeed, it will likely sustain some 
loss, the magnitude of which will depend on the absolute size of the posi-
tion relative to market depth and the speed at which disposal must occur. 
 While a concentrated position can be carried at the mid-market price and 
might thus appear to be fairly priced, it is important to remember that bids, 
offers, and the resulting mid-markets are generally only relevant for trans-
actions of limited size, not those that are excessively large. Market quotes 
are a reflection of average trading size, which varies by market; rarely are 
quotes intended to apply to large volume blocks. Accordingly, a firm must 
be aware of the carrying value on the position by relating the actual size to 
market prices and market depth. Failure to do so might result in an over-
statement of value, crystallizing a loss when forced disposal is required. 
 For instance, assume an asset is trading steadily with a 5-point bid–offer 
spread when a firm with a large holding decides to liquidate. If the size

--- Página 119 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
103
of the position being sold is within the quoted depth, the market impact 
cost will be the mid-market of 2.5 points (half of the bid–offer spread). 
However, if the size of the position is greater than the quoted depth, the 
market impact cost will be far greater as the bid–offer widens, suggesting 
a misvaluation and ensuing loss. Rather than filling the order at mid-
market, the firm might only be able to realize a weak bid, meaning a loss 
versus carrying value. As noted earlier, this effect is sometimes referred to 
as slippage – the variation between the average execution price and the 
 ex-ante mid-market price. Figure 5.1 highlights the slippage problem for a 
concentrated position of size X. 
 Misvalued assets 
 Asset liquidity problems sometimes have their genesis in misvaluation. 
This is true whether a firm follows a mark-to-market convention or an 
accounting policy of the lower of cost or market. If assets are misvalued, 
realizable prices from pledging or disposal might fall short of expecta-
tions, leading to a gap between anticipated and actual cash inflows. For 
example, if a firm believes that its investment portfolio is worth $1 billion 
and is counting on that estimated value to generate $800 million of new 
Price
Dealer
offer
Dealer 
bid
Concentrated
position
Actual sale price
Expected sale price
at mid-market
 Figure 5.1  Sale price of concentrated position

--- Página 120 ---
104 
Liquidity Risk
financing through collateralized borrowing, it will experience liquidity 
pressures if it discovers the investments are only worth $900 million. It 
might now only be able to borrow $700 million, $100 million less than 
anticipated, as a result of valuation errors. 
 Asset misvaluation can occur for a number of reasons, including exces-
sive size, complex structure, or errors in modelling or haircut assump-
tions – or, from an exogenous perspective, the liquidity imbalances 
referenced earlier in the chapter. We have briefly mentioned the first 
problem above. A firm holding a concentrated position that it values at an 
expected mid-market disposal price (or a borrowing price of mid-market 
less some discount) will have insufficient asset coverage when it learns 
that the large position size requires disposal (or pledging) at a weak bid 
price. Again, the concentrated position might be large in absolute terms, 
or it might be large relative to trading volume – the effects are likely to be 
similar. In fact, while firms often mark their assets to mid-market, they 
should actually be marking at the bid, as only the first seller gets the mid-
price: all others lose by paying the liquidity premium. 
 If an asset (or entire portfolio) is overly complex, it might be challeng-
ing to obtain a reasonable estimate. While a conservative firm might 
apply a significant discount to the value it believes it can obtain, a less 
conservative firm might not – and will, again, encounter a surprise when 
it attempts to liquefy the asset. 
 An asset might be difficult to value if it is based on dynamic parameters 
that fluctuate with market conditions or assumptions that are subjective 
(for which no external reference exists).  For instance, the prices of certain 
mortgage-backed securities, particularly those with esoteric dimensions, 
require assumptions about future interest rates and prepayment behavior. 
If the assumptions are wrong, the assets will be incorrectly valued, perhaps 
by a significant amount. The same is true with certain OTC derivatives. 
While vanilla derivatives can be quite simple to value (and benefit from 
robust benchmarks arising from strong two-way trading flows), exotic 
options and swaps are complicated and challenging to price – meaning 
the same pitfalls can surface. If a firm holding exotic assets makes assump-
tions regarding the mathematical behavior of the asset that prove flawed, 
it will not achieve the value it expects. This has become more apparent 
in recent years, especially when market dislocations cause traditional sta-
tistical relationships to decouple. Historical correlations and volatilities 
underpinning a book of complex assets produce particular values, and any 
disruption as a result of stress or flight-to-quality can alter relationships 
and resulting values. Alternatively, if a firm experiences operational/pro-
gramming errors in its valuation routines, an entire book of model-driven 
assets might be misvalued. The same pricing and error issues can apply 
to structured credit products, such as collateralized debt obligations and

--- Página 121 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
105
other synthetic/structured instruments. Many of these instruments rely 
on complex modelling of correlations and joint probabilities of default, 
which creates at least some level of valuation uncertainty. 
 Assets might also be mispriced through the application of incorrect 
haircut assumptions. The prudent firm seeking to convert a particular 
asset into cash generally applies a haircut to the valuation in order to 
compensate for uncertainties related to actual disposal price or collateral-
ized borrowing levels; the larger, more complex, volatile, or illiquid the 
asset, the greater the haircut and the lower the resulting cash value. If 
a firm has made an error in establishing haircut levels, it will suffer a 
shortfall when trying to obtain the cash it requires. Thus, if a particular 
asset is valued at $100 million and is haircut by 10 percent instead of the 
30 percent the market demands, the firm suffers a $20 million shortfall 
in its realizable cash and will have to seek other solutions. 
 Insufficient collateralization 
 Collateral taken to secure transactions can also be impacted by asset 
liquidity problems. This is primarily relevant for institutions that are in 
the business of providing credit on the basis of security. Secured credit 
transactions are generally extended to counterparties that have some 
degree of financial weakness; this means that the probability of having 
to rely on an alternative source of repayment, such as collateral, is much 
greater than in a non-collateralized situation. If a lender has not prop-
erly defined the type and level of collateral it requires – it takes collateral 
that cannot be readily sold at the carrying value less haircut – it might 
sustain an asset-related liquidity loss if two events occur. First, the under-
lying borrower defaults on the extension of credit, forcing the lender 
to dispose of the collateral to effect repayment; and second, the sale of 
the collateral yields insufficient proceeds to cover the original amount 
of the loan. Although the joint probability of both events occurring is 
typically quite small (for example, if there is a 10 percent likelihood of 
each occurring there is only a 1 percent likelihood of both occurring), 
it can happen. During the crises of 1997 and 1998, for instance, certain 
borrowers and counterparties in Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, and Russia 
defaulted, and the collateral held by lenders proved in some cases to be 
insufficient to protect against losses as it was being liquidated in a weak 
market. The same occurred during the Enron bankruptcy in 2001 and 
the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in 2008: collateralized lenders to Enron 
and Lehman realized, in at least some instances, that they lacked suffi-
cient collateral to cover the credit extended to the defaulting parties. 
 Two different pressures impact the asset value of collateral: the general 
state of economic affairs and sales pressure from wholesale disposal of

--- Página 122 ---
106 
Liquidity Risk
collateral by banks. If a shock hits the financial system and conditions 
become particularly fragile, borrowers relinquish (or banks seize) collateral 
because they can no longer perform on their obligations. Banks then dis-
pose of the security, perhaps simultaneously, to cover the credits they have 
previously extended. If the sale occurs synchronously with other liquida-
tions, is too large for the market to absorb, too complex to value with accu-
racy, or based on extremely illiquid assets such as real property, plant and 
equipment, or structured financial instruments, banks might find them-
selves with insufficient funds to redeem the credits they have extended. 
The shortfall places them in a disadvantageous position. The downward 
cycle of collateral valuation and margin calls can be self-fulfilling. Once 
the price of the asset collateral drops below a variation margin threshold 
and generates a margin call, one of two options exists: the borrower can 
fund the margin call through its own external sources, thus preserving the 
financed position, or it can refuse to fund and force the lender to dispose 
of the asset to cover the call. The liquidation of a position, particularly in 
a thin market, can cause price declines large enough to trigger a new set of 
margin calls. Failure to meet the new calls results in additional liquidation, 
further declines in the asset price, and so forth, in a repeated cycle. The 
greater the degree of leverage in the system, the more damaging the liqui-
dation process. We note examples of this effect in Chapter 7. 
 The Effects of Asset Liquidity Risk 
 To summarize our discussion of asset liquidity risk, we consider that in 
the normal course of business a company will be able to meet its expected 
and unexpected obligations without difficulty. If it cannot, it turns first 
to its unsecured funding program, gaining resources through the acquisi-
tion of liabilities. However, in instances where unexpected cash flows are 
so significant that they overwhelm the firm’s ability to meet the excess 
with unsecured funding (or when such funding becomes prohibitively 
expensive), asset liquidity pressures move to the forefront. The intensity 
of these pressures will depend largely on the company’s actions and the 
presence of external forces. 
 Under the most favorable scenario the firm can cope adequately with 
the pressure by borrowing against unencumbered assets or disposing of 
the most liquid instruments in its warehouse. If it has been prudent in 
gauging the value of the assets in relation to their marketability (that is, 
its haircuts are correct), it will have little difficulty securing the resources 
it requires. Under a more serious scenario the firm might be susceptible 
to greater problems, particularly if it has not been conservative enough 
in its management of the asset portfolio or is subject to greater exogenous

--- Página 123 ---
Asset Liquidity Risk 
107
forces. Problems can centre on lack of marketable or unencumbered assets; 
excessive concentrations that cannot be liquidated at, or near, carrying 
value; misvaluation; or insufficient collateralization to cover exposures 
due. At a minimum, these can lead to a financial loss through liquidation 
at a larger than expected discount or pledging at a larger than normal 
haircut. If this occurs in tandem with maximized leverage from accessing 
all available sources of funding and permanent asset sales (which subtract 
from enterprise value), the firm reduces its financial flexibility and enters 
a more critical phase of joint asset/funding liquidity risk, which we con-
sider in the next chapter. 
 Figure 5.2 summarizes aspects of our discussion above. 
Exogenous
forces
Economic loss
Lack of financial
flexibility
Financial distress
Unpredictable
cash flows
Unfavorable
legal/regulatory
judgments
Mismanagement
Negative 
perceptions/
market action
Sources of asset liquidity risk
Asset liquidity risk problems
Lack of asset
marketability
Lack of 
unencumbered
assets
Excessive 
concentrations
Misvalued
assets
Insufficient
collateral
 Figure 5.2  Asset liquidity risks

--- Página 124 ---
108
 6 
 Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
 We have examined the difficulties that can arise with asset and funding 
risks, and we extend the theme in this chapter by analyzing instances 
of financial distress that can arise from joint asset/funding liquidity 
problems. We know from previous chapters that difficulties in raising 
funding or selling/pledging assets can produce losses. While such losses 
can be serious, widespread financial damage can generally be contained. 
However, in some cases asset and funding difficulties combine to create 
a much more dire scenario. Specifically, when asset and funding liquid-
ity risks join together, a liquidity spiral – or a cycle where attempts to 
secure additional liquidity come at an increasing cost and a decreasing 
level of financial flexibility – can develop. Once a liquidity spiral has 
commenced, each new attempt to source cash becomes more critical, dif-
ficult, and costly. A company caught in a spiral must deal forcefully with 
the crisis or risk sliding into financial distress and possible insolvency – 
sometimes very rapidly. 
 In this chapter we consider the specifics of joint asset/funding prob-
lems, the liquidity spiral, and the onset of financial distress. We shall 
relate this conceptual discussion to the realities of the corporate world 
when we introduce a number of actual case studies in Chapter 7. 
 Joint Asset and Funding Risks 
 In Chapter 1 we defined joint asset/funding risk as the risk of loss arising 
when funding cannot be accessed and assets cannot be converted into 
cash at a reasonable cost and within a necessary time frame. In fact, this 
perspective is perhaps closest to the practical experience of stress liquidity 
management, as liquidity issues tend to impact both dimensions of the 
corporate operation simultaneously when micro and macro difficulties 
are present. 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 125 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
109
 Problems 
 Joint asset and funding problems, which can appear in different forms, 
impact firms in unique ways. The scenarios we consider in this section 
are by no means exhaustive, but are representative of our main point: 
namely, that the onset of a funding liquidity problem can lead to actions 
within the asset portfolio that can actually create more constraints, dif-
ficulties, and losses. To illustrate how joint problems can prove damaging, 
let us trace the potential actions of a hypothetical company migrating 
through various phases of funding and asset liquidity pressures. 
 Assume that a company attempts to source new funding in order to 
meet its normal, planned obligations along with $100 million of pre-
viously unexpected payments (coming, perhaps, from a negative legal 
judgment or a product recall). News of the large payment causes concern 
among existing debt holders, leading to a moderate widening of credit 
spreads. The company is able to rollover existing liabilities in the CP mar-
ket at higher spreads to cover its normal obligations, but cannot obtain 
enough new unsecured funding at a sufficiently reasonable cost to cover 
the unexpected payment. Although the company still has some undrawn 
bank lines in place, it prefers to preserve them for a serious emergency. 
Accordingly, it decides to pledge assets in order to raise cash to meet the 
$100 million payment. 
 If the company’s unencumbered assets are liquid and generic (for 
instance, AAA-rated government securities), it can borrow sums that 
are very near the carrying value. Thus, a $100 million portfolio of US 
Treasury bonds might yield a $98 million loan when pledged. However, if 
its assets are more unique or esoteric, the discount will be much larger – 
larger, perhaps, than the firm was expecting. For instance, $100 million 
of work-in-progress inventory might yield $75 million of cash, and fac-
tory equipment only $60 million. 
 If the company lacks enough liquid assets to raise $100 million, it will 
have to put up a greater amount of collateral to secure the required sums, 
further encumbering its balance sheet. Importantly, any pledging of 
assets to secure additional funds (done, of course, in compliance with 
existing negative pledge agreements) reduces financial flexibility and 
sends a negative signal to credit rating agencies, investors, and bank lend-
ers. In fact, creditors may become nervous and charge more for any future 
credit extensions and/or rollovers. In this particular case the company 
may pledge a combination of securities, receivables, and inventories with 
a total carrying value of $120 million to generate $100 million of cash. 
 As a result of the asset pledges and the resulting increase in leverage 
needed to meet the unexpected payment, credit rating agencies lower the 
company’s rating one notch, to the lowest investment grade category of

--- Página 126 ---
110 
Liquidity Risk
BBB-/Baa3. On hearing the news, CP investors grow concerned and refuse 
to roll over their capital when notes come due over ensuing weeks; paya-
bles terms compress dramatically as well, declining from 30 days to 7 days. 
The company now needs $80 million to meet the next round of normal 
operating requirements but lacks CP funding and is forced to draw-down 
on the unused “emergency” bank lines. The draw-down again sends a 
negative signal to the marketplace. Indeed, when a company draws on a 
facility that is typically reserved for true emergencies rather than regular 
working capital, it is invariably sending a message to lenders and inves-
tors. Other unsecured lenders who have provided advised, but not com-
mitted, facilities, move to cancel credit to the firm; in addition, suppliers 
change payables to a “cash on delivery” basis. 
 Needing access to additional funds to meet a third round of normal pay-
ments that can no longer be covered by CP or newly revoked uncommit-
ted facilities, and possessing no further unused bank lines, the company 
is again forced to turn to its assets to generate cash. It can pledge remain-
ing unencumbered inventories and securities carried at a combined value 
of $100 million for cash proceeds of $70 million, or it can sell them out-
right for $80 million. Increasingly desperate for the additional funds, the 
company becomes an outright seller of assets, sustaining a loss from sales 
at distressed prices. News of the asset sales filters into the marketplace, 
causing further concerns among stakeholders. 
 The credit rating agencies downgrade the company to sub-investment 
grade as a result of the firm’s growing illiquidity, lack of financial flex-
ibility (from draw-downs, cancelled bank lines, and lack of CP rollovers), 
and liquidity-induced losses (from outright asset sales at increasingly dis-
tressed prices and higher funding costs on outstanding facilities). The 
downgrade to sub-investment grade breaches covenants in the drawn 
bank lines. Certain lenders demand immediate repayment of their funds, 
though they know that such actions may force the company into greater 
financial distress. In order to repay the bank lines and secure enough 
cash for survival, the company and its investment bankers arrange for 
the issuance of a high-yield bond at a very high cost; proceeds are used to 
meet obligations and give the company time to restructure its asset and 
liability portfolios and negotiate new facilities with its bankers. It is not 
hard to imagine continued deterioration if high-yield bond investors can-
not be found and the company does not manage its operations forcefully 
following the bond issuance. 
 The point of this simple example is to demonstrate that the conflu-
ence of funding and asset liquidity problems can create significant direct 
economic losses (higher funding costs, loss on sale of assets at prices 
below carrying value) and indirect losses (lack of investor confidence,

--- Página 127 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
111
diminished financial flexibility, deteriorating credit rating, and breach 
of covenants). 
 The classic “run on the bank” scenario is another good example of 
joint asset and funding problems that can lead, in theory and practice, 
to liquidity spirals and instances of financial distress. Although a bank 
run can occur for various reasons 1 (perhaps for example rumors circulate 
about a bank’s growing bad loan portfolio, regulators discover significant 
problems in its operations, the bank is believed to have been the victim of 
a very large internal fraud, or is liable under legal judgments), the first vis-
ible sign of difficulties might appear when short-term interbank deposits 
increase sharply in cost and/or are withdrawn by various banking com-
petitors. This might be followed by retail deposit withdrawals, forcing the 
bank to tap alternate sources of funding (such as term funds), for which 
it will be required to pay higher rates, sustaining losses. The bank may 
simultaneously pledge or liquidate financial assets from its liquidity ware-
house in order to boost its cash position. The sale or pledge of assets, par-
ticularly those that are less liquid (such as high-yield bonds and loans), 
might be done at larger than expected discounts, leaving the bank with 
a shortfall and a loss. A credit downgrade might follow. Negative news 
on the asset difficulties, encumbrances, and downgrade might accelerate 
the spiral, leading to further deposit withdrawals, more asset sales and 
pledges, higher funding costs, greater lack of flexibility, additional down-
grades, contractions in the credit business (which can impact funds avail-
ability for other borrowers), growing loss of confidence, further deposit 
withdrawals, and so on, in a continuous downward spiral. Unless the 
cycle is halted, the bank may be forced to seek funding from regulatory 
sources, an act which is almost certain to destroy any remaining confi-
dence in the institution. 
 Problems are not always confined to individual firms – joint asset and 
funding risks can also appear at a macro level. Although each firm might 
be impacted by the events and suffer losses, the total effect is much more 
damaging as it can involve dozens of institutions from related or unre-
lated industries. For example, individual firms with lack of funding access 
can become sellers of assets in an attempt to generate cash; distressed sales 
lead to further shortfalls and more selling in a ripple effect that engulfs 
other firms with similar funding needs. Each new wave of sales into a 
thin market leads to further price markdowns, more funding withdrawal 
and flight-to-quality, and so forth, until dozens, and perhaps hundreds, 
of institutions are damaged by the effects. In fact, this is precisely what 
occurred during the financial crisis of 2007–2008, where the systemic 
interrelationships between companies, industries and even countries 
became painfully clear.

--- Página 128 ---
112 
Liquidity Risk
 Causes 
 Joint asset and funding problems can arise as a result of endogenous fac-
tors, including one or more of those we have mentioned in the last two 
chapters: unpredictable cash flows, unfavorable legal or regulatory judg-
ments, mismanagement, and/or negative market perceptions/actions. 
Any one of these can trigger the chain of events described above. A poorly 
planned or executed contingency funding program can exacerbate diffi-
culties. If executives do not have the proper tools to control problems as 
they grow larger, events might ultimately overtake the company. 
 Exogenous forces can also play a part. Reverting to our point in Chapter 3 
regarding theoretical and actual access to amalgamated liquidity, it is 
clear that during dislocations normal channels of capital-raising and asset 
sales/pledging are disrupted, meaning standard operating procedures 
based on theoretical access might not solve the problems. Under stress 
scenarios, assets might not be worth the amount suggested by carrying 
value; this is especially true for assets that are complex or non-standard. 
Equally, liabilities might not always behave as anticipated; contractual 
and behavioral maturities might diverge; and sources of funding might 
be withdrawn, recalled, or cancelled. 
 It is precisely during times of market stress that certain firms demand 
liquidity and those that supply it might not be able, or willing, to do 
so. For instance, if a major financial dislocation occurs, investors in the 
CP or ECP markets may be reluctant to fund corporate balance sheets, 
preferring the relative safety of highly rated government securities. The 
short-term corporate funding markets shut down as the flight-to-quality 
process begins. In an effort to remain liquid, companies may start tap-
ping other facilities. While the capital markets might emerge as another 
funding alternative, in practice they might close down when there is evi-
dence of significant systemic uncertainty – meaning firms place greater 
reliance on bank lines. If credit facilities are truly committed, banks will 
have no choice but to fund, regardless of the general credit environment. 2 
But if the facilities are only advised, banks may cancel them, placing com-
panies in more dire financial straits, forcing them ultimately to pay more 
for their funding access. 
 Banks that choose to finance corporate clients in this stressful environ-
ment must arrange for their own liquidity; if depositors are nervous and 
have joined investors in the flight-to-quality movement, they may not be 
willing to grant deposits at reasonable rates, forcing banks to fund their 
operations at a higher cost, dispose of assets at a loss to carrying value 
(i.e., a de-facto deleveraging exercise), or pledge assets on unfavorable 
terms. 3 Systemic pressures can thus flow throughout the system, creating 
losses for institutions from various sectors.

--- Página 129 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
113
 The diffusion of illiquid conditions through a system – from related mar-
kets to seemingly unrelated markets – has been the focus of empirical work 
over the past few years. Although the reasons for contagion have yet to be 
fully understood, some studies point to the damaging effects of concen-
trated and leveraged positions in risky sectors, and the ensuing flight-to-
quality that occurs as institutions seek relatively risk-free and liquid havens 
for their cash. Riskier markets grow increasingly susceptible to illiquidity, 
and quoting becomes offered-only. The ability for firms to dispose of risky 
assets declines markedly – liquidation horizons lengthen, volatility rises, and 
discounts deepen. Investors holding short-term, unsecured funding instru-
ments may be unwilling to continue doing so, leading to further strains 
in funding. Until the systemic dislocation is halted and calm returns to 
the market, companies and banks are faced with declining asset values and 
rising funding costs. Exogenous factors can easily compound institution-
specific problems. This is, of course, precisely what happened in mid- to 
late-1998, and in a much more obvious fashion between 2007 and 2009. 
 The Liquidity Spiral 
 Joint asset/funding problems might be contained when the crisis is in its 
earliest stages and management deals aggressively with mounting prob-
lems. However, in some cases the situation can be difficult to contain and 
might move out of control; indeed, the liquidity spiral can be quick and 
devastating, and in the most serious cases can culminate in insolvency. 
(We will note in the next chapter an example of a liquidity spiral and 
bankruptcy that commenced and finished in only ten days.) 
 Problems 
 There is no definitive sequence of events that leads a firm from joint 
asset/funding problems into a more serious liquidity spiral; each instance 
is institution and market-specific. Similarly, there is no set time frame 
during which problems can intensify: a spiral might appear and termi-
nate in a matter of days, or it might take several weeks. It is unlikely, 
however, to last much longer than that, as a firm caught in a spiral uti-
lizes all available resources and mechanisms until the point of recovery, 
intervention, or collapse. 
 Building on examples from earlier in the chapter, we can trace a gen-
eral sequence of events leading to a liquidity spiral. A company is pre-
sented with an unexpected payment or obligation, and lack of sufficient 
funds requires a draw-down from backup sources; the remaining shortfall 
requires funding via asset encumbrances. Credit rating agencies, investors,

--- Página 130 ---
114 
Liquidity Risk
and lenders become aware of the draw-down and pledging, and grow con-
cerned; the company’s cost of funds on rollovers rises, and some investors 
withdraw their capital. The loss of funding sources (such as rollovers) to 
meet standard operating payments leads to further encumbrances and 
asset sales; credit rating agencies downgrade the company’s rating as a 
result of the decreased flexibility and growing funding pressures. More 
investors withdraw funds on news of the downgrade; some banks raise 
their effective interest charges sharply, while others demand repayment 
or cancel their facilities. 4 
 The loss of additional funding leads to further encumbrances and the 
start of more active asset sales. The company becomes a distressed price 
taker, suggesting growing loss of control over its own financial position. 
As this pressure builds, rating agencies again downgrade the firm on 
heightened concerns about growing liquidity problems and decreased 
financial flexibility. The downgrade pierces the critical investment grade 
floor, triggering covenants that require the company to post collateral on 
existing credit facilities. This action reduces flexibility even further and 
leads to wholesale withdrawal of funds by remaining investors. Banks 
with material adverse change clauses or financial test ratios that have 
been breached cancel their undrawn credit facilities, cutting off another 
source of financing. 
 The company and its investment bankers consider floating a high-yield 
bond to raise desperately needed cash, but investors shun the proposal 
as they are unwilling to supply funds at any risk premium. Confidence 
of investors, creditors, and rating agencies deteriorates rapidly; the firm’s 
stock price plunges on rumors of impending bankruptcy, and manage-
ment utilizes the last of its assets to generate cash. However, the “last-
ditch” actions come too late: loss of market confidence is total, and the 
company is forced into a position of financial distress. It must arrange for 
a rapid sale to a third party or file a bankruptcy petition in the courts. 
 Curiously, in some cases regulatory pressures may heighten or accel-
erate aspects of the liquidity spiral. Consider, for instance, that banks 
subject to regulatory review in some national systems are prohibited from 
accessing certain types of funding as their financial condition deterio-
rates – precisely when an injection would prove most helpful. Historically, 
in the US system, banks with weak capital levels (created, perhaps, by 
excessive credit or market risk losses) have not been able to tap the bro-
kered deposit market and have been constrained in their ability to use the 
Federal Reserve discount window (though some temporary changes were 
permitted in 2008). Lack of access to such funds can cause other deposi-
tors to withdraw their capital, leading to more losses through higher cost 
of funding from alternate sources. Such actions create more difficulties, 
further restrictions, and an acceleration of the spiral.

--- Página 131 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
115
 Figure 6.1 illustrates a generic sequence of events in the liquidity 
spiral. 
 The liquidity spiral can be expanded to the systemic level by applying 
the same sequence of events to dozens of institutions. This can result in a 
particularly severe crisis, leading ultimately to the financial impairment 
or insolvency of a large number of firms. When financial institutions are 
at risk, regulatory intervention may be required in order to prevent con-
tagion. Indeed, some regulators may choose to suspend financial require-
ments or measures – such as solvency ratios or resiliency tests – during 
times of system-wide crisis in order not to perpetuate or accelerate behav-
iors that might actually fuel further market instability. In other cases they 
may be forced to sponsor or orchestrate rescue packages. Though such 
systemic liquidity spiral events are quite rare, they do occur (i.e., they did 
so in the UK banking systems in 1974, Sweden in 1991, Southeast Asia in 
1997, Russia/hedge funds in 1998 and various national financial systems 
in 2007–2008). 
 Causes 
 Liquidity spirals do not occur in every instance of joint asset/fund-
ing problems – additional forces must generally be present to create a 
Unexpected
payment
Funding 
shortfall
Asset pledging/
sales
Reduced 
flexibility, losses
Stakeholder 
nervousness,
downgrades
Lack of
rollovers, funds
withdrawal
Financial
distress
Spiral: nth iteration
Spiral: 2nd iteration
Spiral: 1st iteration
 Figure 6.1  The liquidity spiral

--- Página 132 ---
116 
Liquidity Risk
deterioration that leads to a spiral. While the initial reasons for liquidity 
problems might be entirely endogenous (mismanagement of a liquidity 
facility, unexpected cash flow surprises, and so on), the accelerating spiral 
might be a mix of exogenous and endogenous factors, based on both loss 
of stakeholder confidence and management inability to respond to the 
crisis. Loss of confidence can appear in investors or depositors (who may 
be unwilling to hold or renew liabilities), bankers (who may be reluctant 
to provide additional funding), and rating agencies (who may question or 
doubt a firm’s ability to repay obligations as they come due). 
 The actual reasons for the loss of confidence may be irrelevant once a 
crisis is underway. Indeed, lack of confidence need not always be grounded 
in fact – rumor can be enough to trigger a damaging chain of events. The 
critical point is that once confidence is lost it can feed on itself; since 
news travels fast in this connected age, it is rarely long before other stake-
holders become aware of the concerns of other parties, and take defensive 
actions in order to protect capital or reputation. The banker that has lost 
confidence will refuse to lend any more funds; investors holding bonds 
or CP will sell or refuse to rollover; rating agencies, aware of the exodus 
of funding, may downgrade the firm. These actions lead to further loss of 
funding, asset disposals, and encumbrances, perpetuating the spiral. 
 If management does not act forcefully to stop the outflows and halt 
the spiral, events can continue until they reach their final conclusion – 
financial distress, which we discuss below. The role and actions of certain 
stakeholders, and management’s response, are thus critical in determin-
ing whether a joint problem is resolved or accelerates. We consider the 
specific roles of debt investors/banks, rating agencies, and company 
management. 
 Debt investors and banks 
 Debt investors, including those holding short-term debt obligations of a 
company (as well as medium/long-term bonds coming due in the current 
period), often hold the fate of a company in their hands. Their willingness 
or reluctance to continue supplying a troubled firm with funds is central 
in determining whether a spiral will accelerate or slow. If debt investors 
are concerned about the financial status and outlook of the firm, but not 
to the point where they believe a default is imminent, they may continue 
to supply capital through rollovers, extensions, or new money. (Recall 
our example from the beginning of the chapter, where the hypothetical 
company was able to place a high-yield bond because investors agreed to 
continue providing capital.) Although they will surely demand a higher 
risk premium because the company has become a poorer credit, funding 
remains intact. As long as management can convince debt investors that

--- Página 133 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
117
sufficient cash will be available to pay interest and principal and meet 
other obligations, the firm gains time to strengthen its overall financial 
status. 
 However, if investors grow wary, they may be unwilling to continue 
their rollovers. If they truly believe default is inevitable, they will seek to 
recover whatever capital they can while the firm remains solvent. If man-
agement is unable to convince investors to remain committed, redemp-
tions/cessation of rollovers will occur, and the firm will be forced to take 
additional measures, such as borrowing on a secured basis (assuming that 
is an option). Debt investors, in declaring their unwillingness to roll over 
funds, thus have a direct hand in deciding the firm’s fate. The actions 
they take might actually induce an acceleration of the spiral that leads 
ultimately to default. 
 A similar process is true, to a lesser extent, for investors holding 
medium- and long-term debt. Although they cannot refuse to roll over 
their paper, as maturities are not current, they can sell the liabilities in 
the marketplace at what might be considered distressed prices. The sale of 
a firm’s debt at a deep discount will convey a negative signal to others in 
the marketplace, leading again to an acceleration of the spiral. 
 Banks play an equally important role. As the primary suppliers of 
secured or unsecured funds to a company, they have a significant say in 
whether or not a troubled firm will be able to exit a spiral. If banks believe 
that the company can be salvaged through the injection of additional 
short- or medium-term loans (on either a secured or unsecured basis), 
they provide the marketplace with a vote of confidence and can often 
reverse a deteriorating situation. Debt investors and rating agencies are 
likely to view such actions positively, and the company may once again 
buy additional time to strengthen its position. If, however, banks become 
convinced through their discussions with management and/or the due 
diligence process that any further supply of credit is unwise (i.e., it repre-
sents “throwing good money after bad”), they will almost certainly have 
sealed the firm’s fate. Banks that refuse to provide further cash injections, 
even on a secured basis, indicate to the marketplace that the company is 
not worthy of additional credit – meaning the firm will be forced to take 
drastic action (such as distressed asset sales, or sale of business units or 
the entire firm to a competitor). 
 In arriving at this decision banks are likely to have analyzed their 
position as creditors in a bankruptcy situation. They will already know 
that a decision not to lend is almost certain to lead to distress/default 
and a sharp discount in the amount they will recover in liquidation or 
reorganization, so the decision they ultimately take will be based on 
knowledge of near-certain losses (unless all banks are properly secured

--- Página 134 ---
118 
Liquidity Risk
by valuable assets, or an eleventh-hour corporate acquisition can be 
arranged). 
 The decision we refer to in this section relates primarily to a company’s 
lead bankers. While it is common for a company of reasonable size to 
feature a number of banking relationships (say, five to ten), lead banks 
are primarily responsible for driving the relationship and the key funding 
decisions, and organizing the syndicate of second-tier banks. Although 
a secondary bank might choose to withdraw at any time and for any 
reason, such an action is unlikely to be interpreted negatively by the mar-
ketplace. The same is not true with regard to the lead bankers: if a lead 
decides not to commit further funds or support the relationship, the sig-
nal is negative. 
 Rating agencies 
 The major global rating agencies (Moody’s Investors Services, Standard 
and Poor’s, and Fitch) play a central role in the corporate process by 
examining the financial status, performance, and outlook of companies 
(and sovereigns), and assigning ratings that reflect creditworthiness, or 
perceived ability to meet obligations. The best investment grade credits 
are considered to have very strong financial capacity to meet payments as 
they come due; weaker credits, such as those rated sub-investment grade 
(for instance, below BBB–/Baa3) do not have the same capacity. For rea-
sons related to leverage, liquidity, earnings quality, market share, man-
agement, competitive pressures, and asset quality, such firms are more 
likely to run into problems with their contractual obligations. Publicly 
rated companies rely on ratings to access the debt capital markets at the 
best possible rate. Investment grade credits enjoy broad and deep access 
and good funding levels, while sub-investment grade credits often face 
hurdles related to both market access and cost of funds. The weaker the 
credit, the more difficult and expensive the debt-raising process, up to the 
point where no further financing is possible. 
 It comes as no surprise that rating agencies wield considerable power 
when it comes to determining the fate of companies that are experienc-
ing financial difficulties. We have indicated through our examples above 
instances when a rating agency may downgrade a credit as a result of illi-
quidity and/or lack of financial flexibility. With each subsequent down-
grade, investors and lenders relying on external ratings as part of their 
own debt investment strategies become increasingly nervous, sometimes 
to the point of withdrawing funds. The withdrawal can lead to more 
credit downgrades, triggering more capital flight, further downgrades, 
and so forth, accelerating the spiral. Financial deterioration might also

--- Página 135 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
119
breach leverage or liquidity covenants contained in bond indentures or 
credit agreements, leading to downgrades as well. 
 Agencies have the ability to influence (although, in most cases, not 
directly affect) the speed of the downward spiral by considering a down-
grade action. If an agency believes a company in financial distress can 
arrange for sufficient financing to keep operating on a reasonable basis, it 
may preserve the rating and inject confidence into the marketplace. This 
might be enough to halt the downward spiral. Conversely, if the agency 
believes the outlook is bleak and continues with its downgrade actions, it 
might simply accelerate the spiral. 
 Management reaction 
 The reaction of management to internal and external forces that lead to, 
and accelerate, the liquidity spiral is exceptionally important in determin-
ing whether or not the spiral can be halted, or at least slowed, until other 
plans can be developed. Management that has developed a contingency 
plan (such as we discuss in Chapter 10) and can deal forcefully with the 
problems that have generated a crisis might be able to restore stakeholder 
confidence and raise the funds required to exit the spiral. There is no 
guarantee, of course, that strong management action alone can halt a 
slide: in some instances exogenous forces are so overwhelming that even 
a strong executive team operating through the most robust contingency 
plan can fail to achieve a successful end. Nevertheless, the chances of suc-
cess are greater when management reacts quickly and decisively. If these 
ingredients are lacking, and executives are unable or unwilling to execute 
an emergency recovery plan, migration into severe financial distress is a 
virtual certainty. 
 Financial Distress 
 A company unable to escape from a liquidity spiral enters a state of finan-
cial distress. 5 Once in this phase, there is often little that can be done to 
preserve the company in its original form. The end game generally involves 
one of two scenarios: insolvency or regulatory/private intervention. 
 When a firm’s cash position has been so badly impaired, and the events 
of the liquidity spiral have taken their toll, a firm must either file for 
bankruptcy or sell to (or receive assistance from) a competitor or invest-
ment group. In the special case of banking institutions, primarily those 
considered to be “too big to fail,” a regulatory intervention or bailout 
might occur (to wit, those arranged particularly in 2008–2009). For the 
remainder of companies lacking such a regulatory “safety net,” a common

--- Página 136 ---
120 
Liquidity Risk
course of action is to file a bankruptcy petition and opt for liquidation or 
reorganization. 
 If a company is deemed to have sufficient value in its asset base, and 
has simply failed to manage its cash position properly, then creditors and 
administrators may feel that an attempt at reorganization is worthwhile. 
Although shareholders will lose their investments and creditors will sus-
tain considerable losses, the firm will be able to continue to operate in 
some form once it emerges from the bankruptcy process. It is common 
in such cases for the bankruptcy court to appoint an administrator to 
oversee the firm’s operations. If no such administrator is appointed, the 
courts may permit existing management to continue operating the firm 
as debtors-in-possession, under the monitoring of both the bankruptcy 
court and creditors. The reorganization process, which might take any-
where from months to years to complete, culminates in a reorganization 
plan and the re-emergence of a new corporate entity. 
 However, if the company is not believed to have enough value, the 
courts may opt for liquidation. Corporate assets will be sold and proceeds 
distributed to creditors in order of priority, with secured creditors receiv-
ing the largest pay-out and equity holders the smallest. The company will 
cease to operate as a going concern. 
 Short of a bankruptcy filing, there are instances where directors have 
enough time, and the company has enough value, to arrange for the sale 
of the firm to a third party. By doing so, the acquiring company assumes 
the liabilities of the distressed company or provides enough of a cash 
injection for the latter to continue operating under its control. Such situ-
ations are rather more rare than bankruptcy motions, but they can occur 
when it is clear that the firm, but for its cash strain, is a worthy fran-
chise that can continue to create value for investors, and an interested 
acquirer can react to the opportunity quickly enough. Although the end-
ing is not as dramatic as the liquidation or reorganization scenarios, it 
is clearly still one of financial distress and loss of corporate identity and 
independence. 
 Joint asset/funding liquidity risk is a significant problem, yet one that is 
sometimes overlooked. Indeed, it is tempting to isolate the potential loss 
events that can occur when problems arise either within the asset or fund-
ing portfolios. But the approach can fall short, as it fails to examine the 
damage that can be wrought when the effects are working in tandem. 
 Contagion 
 Our discussion of liquidity spirals and financial distress has focused pri-
marily on the plight of individual institutions. Such a micro focus helps

--- Página 137 ---
Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
121
to understand how and why problems can occur. But we would be remiss 
in not extending the concept further, into the realm of the macro, or the 
systemic level. In fact, the spillover effects from one institution to others 
appears to be relatively rare. Just because one company has a liquidity 
problem that can lead to financial distress does not mean that other com-
panies must suffer a similar fate – even if the distressed company is large 
and strategically important. For instance, energy trading company Enron 
(which we discuss at greater length in the next chapter), was a very large 
and important multinational firm, playing a significant role in the energy 
trading sector and featuring many clients and unsecured creditors. When 
it collapsed in 2001, primarily from liquidity-driven pressures, it did not 
create a spillover effect to others in the energy trading sector or, indeed, 
in the financial sector. Its problems were relatively self-contained and 
its systemic linkages were simply not deep enough to create a liquidity 
contagion effect. 
 However, in some rare cases the extreme liquidity problems and result-
ant financial distress of a large firm can cause a broader “toppling of the 
dominoes.” This appears to occur primarily when the firm has an impor-
tant systemic role (e.g., a “too big to fail” bank or a very large insurer/
reinsurer with a significant book of business) and when its failure could 
trigger liquidity problems elsewhere. The best examples are drawn, not 
surprisingly, from the financial sector, where each large financial insti-
tution is part of a transmission or intermediation chain that alternately 
relies on, and is relied upon by, others. Failure of a large bank from liquid-
ity problems can lead to widespread contagion – lack of confidence, silent 
bank runs, and further instances of financial distress can follow. For 
example, in July 2008 the failure of US mortgage specialist IndyMac led to 
silent runs on Washington Mutual (WaMu); the second silent run, com-
ing in September 2008, forced WaMu into an acquisition by JP Morgan. 
That silent run seems to have led to similar silent bank runs at Wachovia 
(which had to be rescued by Wells Fargo) and Merrill Lynch (which was 
ultimately purchased by Bank of America). Thus, the collapse of one insti-
tution from liquidity pressures and large credit losses flowed through the 
system, creating severe liquidity problems for other large, systemically 
important firms. Again, though the contagion effect is rare, it can occur. 
Ironically, these problems may, in fact, by exacerbated by certain rules, 
such as mark-to-market asset pricing and pro-cyclical capital rules. 
 With background on liquidity spirals and financial distress in hand, 
we are now prepared to consider, in the next chapter, a number of actual 
case studies.

--- Página 138 ---
122
 7 
 Case Studies in Liquidity 
Mismanagement 
 In the last three chapters we have explored concepts of liquidity risk and 
the financial losses that can arise from such exposures. In this chapter we 
extend our discussion by exploring a select number of “real world” case 
studies that help illustrate different dimensions of liquidity risk and the 
degree of damage that can be wrought. 
 The examples we have chosen represent the apex of liquidity risk: 
financial distress leading to bankruptcy. But our sampling is necessar-
ily small. Many institutions have failed or been rescued over the years, 
solely or largely as a result of liquidity problems. Still others have encoun-
tered liquidity-induced financial problems but managed to avert massive 
losses and even bankruptcy by taking “evasive action” at a late hour. 
For instance, in the 1980s and 1990s Continental Illinois, 1 Development 
Finance Corporation of New Zealand, Bank of New England, Colorado 
Utilities, British and Commonwealth Merchant Bank, and Peregrine 
Securities, among others, succumbed to liquidity problems and had to 
be restructured or liquidated. Others, such as the Bank of New York, 
Salomon Brothers, and Citibank, suffered significant losses as a result 
of liquidity problems, but managed to avoid the final stages of financial 
distress. 2 
 Many other examples have appeared in the millennium: Enron, Swissair, 
IndyMac, and Lehman Brothers (among others), collapsed solely or prima-
rily due to liquidity problems, while Bear Stearns, Wachovia, Washington 
Mutual, Northern Rock, Dexia and Merrill Lynch (again, among others), 
had to be rescued through acquisitions or restructurings. There is, unfor-
tunately, no shortage of individual institutional examples. 
 In some instances entire sectors have been impacted by the same pres-
sures, creating system-wide losses and institutional failures: the British sec-
ondary banking crisis of the mid-1970s, the US savings and loan crisis of 
the mid- to late-1980s, the global stock market crash of 1987, 3 the Swedish 
banking crisis of the early 1990s, the Mexican banking and corporate 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 139 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
123
crisis of 1994 and 1995, 4 the Turkish banking crisis of 2000, the global 
airline industry dislocation following the September 2001 attacks, and 
the global financial crisis of 2007–2008 created liquidity-related losses for 
numerous institutions. 5 While other factors were also at play (e.g., credit 
risk, sovereign risk, market risk), liquidity risk played a leading role in 
each one of these systemic crises. 
 Although all of these examples are important and instructive, space 
considerations require us to focus on a limited number of examples. 
Accordingly, in this chapter we consider case studies related to indus-
try/services (Enron, Swissair), finance (Drexel Burnham Lambert, Askin 
Capital, Long Term Capital Management, General American, Lehman 
Brothers, Northern Rock) and government (Orange County). We find 
that in each situation liquidity problems were caused by unique factors. 
For example, with Enron we note instances of financial fraud and inter-
nal control failure; with Drexel we find a breach of fiduciary duties and 
lack of effective risk and funding management; in General American 
we discover mismanagement of funding sources; in Askin Capital and 
Lehman Brothers we see concentrated funding built on risky and illiquid 
investments; in Northern Rock we note a risky and aggressive asset gath-
ering strategy funded through unstable, often short-term, liabilities; and 
so forth. 
 Although each features different root causes, they all share a common 
theme: lack of access to sufficient cash to continue operations, leading 
ultimately to the liquidity spirals and financial distress discussed in the 
last chapter. This does not mean that sufficient liquidity would have 
altered the fate of each entity: for example, there is little to suggest that 
Enron could have carried on for another 6 or 12 months even with liquid-
ity access, as its financial fraud ran deep. But the end result in some cases 
might have been different. An examination of these cases is therefore an 
important step in understanding the practical effects of liquidity risk, 
and will allow us to consider, in Part III, the construction of a risk man-
agement process that can cope with such exposures. 
 Drexel Burnham Lambert (1990) 
 Drexel Burnham Lambert (DBL), which started out as a second-tier 
Philadelphia firm and grew into a Wall Street power, dominated the mar-
ket for high-yield (or junk) bonds for most of the 1980s. Through the 
efforts of trader/originator Michael Milken, DBL began focusing in the 
late 1970s on “out of favor” investments, such as real estate investment 
trusts, convertible bonds, preferred stock, and, most important, fallen 
angels – investment-grade bonds that had been downgraded to “junk” 
status (i.e., below BBB–/Baa3).

--- Página 140 ---
124 
Liquidity Risk
 Milken analyzed default probabilities and returns on these securities, 
and concluded that spreads were too wide given default experience. He 
realized that investors holding diversified portfolios of high-yield bonds 
would be exposed to a greater amount of default risk, but less than was 
apparent from a pure examination of credit ratings (certainly when com-
pared with the spreads that could be earned). In 1978 DBL set up an office 
in Los Angeles to expand the high-yield bond business. Milken and his 
team started developing an investor base for high-yield bonds (including 
large institutional investors such as Mass Mutual, Lord Abbett, Reliance 
Insurance, First Executive Life, and American Financial Corporation). 
Simultaneously, DBL’s bankers called on lower-rated companies, prom-
ising to originate bond deals for them. Through these joint efforts, the 
bank became the top underwriter of junk bonds, a status it held until its 
downfall in 1990. 
 The high-yield business of the early 1980s was active but benign: the 
bonds were not yet viewed negatively, and companies issued them mainly 
for growth (two-thirds of bonds were used for corporate expansion). 
However, by the mid-1980s they began to be used for hostile transactions 
and leveraged buyouts (LBOs), and acquired a negative patina. During this 
period DBL made a strategic decision to provide junk bond financing for 
hostile transactions and LBOs, and create “war chests” for companies seek-
ing to acquire others. The bank also developed the “highly confident” let-
ter, a loose underwriting commitment given to companies that were eager 
to purchase competitors and needed to demonstrate funding availability. 
 As the market continued to grow Milken ran afoul of securities laws, 
and the bank put itself in conflicted situations related to front-running 
and unfair pricing on internal partnership positions. DBL also began 
accumulating a larger amount of risk positions. Many new junk issues 
were arranged on a fully underwritten basis, and some of the highly con-
fident letters the bank issued ultimately turned into firm underwritings 
as well. As the market moved into a speculative phase and the credit qual-
ity of issuers became increasingly marginal, DBL had greater difficulty 
placing the bonds: the bank was evolving from a relatively flexible and 
liquid securities firm into a semi-permanent lender with an illiquid bal-
ance sheet. 
 By the late 1980s the bank routinely carried billions of dollars of junk 
bonds in its portfolio, and funding the positions was becoming increas-
ingly difficult. While a typical Wall Street bank with a liquid portfolio of 
government securities and high-grade corporate bonds can finance them 
under normal market conditions in the repurchase agreement market at 
haircuts of up to 50 basis points (government bonds) and 5–10 percent 
(corporate bonds), high-yield bonds are treated much more conservatively,

--- Página 141 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
125
commanding a 50-plus percent haircut (based on changes in US securi-
ties laws enacted in 1986). As we have noted earlier, this requirement 
reduces financial flexibility. 
 As the market moved through its most difficult stage in the late 1980s, 
regulators investigating DBL and Milken discovered evidence of corrupt 
sales practices, insider trading, self-dealing, and conflicts of interest. Under 
the threat of criminal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization 
(RICO) charges, Drexel settled by paying a $650 million fine and ousting 
Milken and several of his associates. (Milken himself was charged on 98 
counts and pleaded guilty to six felonies.) 
 DBL’s punishment coincided with a downturn in the US economy and 
a rapid rise in corporate default rates. The bank, holding a multi-billion 
dollar portfolio of risky junk bonds that were being financed at 50 per-
cent haircuts, began experiencing a serious liquidity squeeze. As other 
Wall Street banks grew nervous about DBL’s strained funding position, 
they began withdrawing their Treasury repo and short-term unsecured 
bank facilities. Investors in DBL’s CP stopped rolling over their capital 
as paper matured. In addition, falling junk bond prices triggered margin 
calls on the repo financing, which forced the bank to put up scarce cash 
to preserve the financing. As cash dwindled, some repo lenders liquidated 
the underlying collateral, creating further downward pressure on asset 
prices. 
 As the liquidity strain mounted in January and February 1990, the com-
bination of short-term line cancellations, margin calls, forced bond dis-
posals, and reputational damage pushed the bank into an accelerating 
liquidity spiral. With insufficient access to cash, the bank defaulted on 
$150 million in interest payments under one of its facilities, which trig-
gered cross-defaults on other obligations and forced the bank to file for 
bankruptcy protection. 
 DBL represents an example of how an illiquid portfolio of assets funded 
at significant discounts, coupled with management and reputational prob-
lems, can create severe financial distress. Although the bank’s problems 
had been years in the making, it was able to sustain its operations as long 
as other securities firms and banks were willing to provide funding, and 
investors were willing to roll over CP. Although the 50 percent haircut 
on the high-yield portfolio was burdensome, the financing was manage-
able as long as the bank maintained the confidence of other institutional 
investors and the market for high-yield securities remained buoyant. But 
when the bank’s reputation suffered and management could no longer 
contain negative press, the concentrated high-yield positions and lack of 
funding alternatives took their toll; external selling pressure in the junk 
market exacerbated the situation.

--- Página 142 ---
126 
Liquidity Risk
 Reverting to our discussion from earlier in the book, DBL suffered on 
various fronts:
 Excessive concentrations in risky, illiquid high yield assets 
 
●
 Use of a large amount of short-term financing that could easily be 
 
●
withdrawn or cancelled (such as CP and Treasury repos) 
 Heavy reliance on collateralized financing based on very large dis-
 
●
counts to carrying value 
 Insufficient liquid assets to meet redemptions and other obligations 
 
●
 Lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●
 Absence of a robust contingency plan to deal with a disaster scenario 
 
●
based on erosion of lender/investor confidence and deterioration in 
the high-yield market. 
 Askin Capital (1994) 
 Askin Capital, a hedge fund group operating a number of sub-funds, was 
formed in 1992 when David Askin, a mortgage-backed securities (MBS) 
specialist associated at one time with Merrill Lynch, DBL, and Daiwa 
Securities, joined, and then acquired, an investment fund known as 
Granite Partners. Between 1992 and 1994 Askin Capital expanded the 
operation and restructured it into three separate funds: Granite Partners, 
Granite Corporation, and Quartz Hedge Fund. Askin’s strong track record 
allowed him to attract investment funds from a number of top institu-
tions, including AIG, Rockefeller Foundation, and McKinsey. Total assets 
under management expanded rapidly, from $130 million in 1992 to 
$300 million by mid-1993 and $600 million in March 1994. 
 While at DBL and Daiwa, Askin had developed MBS modelling and 
investment strategies based primarily on the most esoteric elements of 
the mortgage market (derivative tranches of collateralized mortgage obli-
gations (CMOs)), and he applied the same approach to the new funds. 
Askin assembled interest-only (IO)/principal-only (PO) strips and other 
CMO tranches into “market neutral” portfolios that were meant to per-
form well in either rising or falling interest rate environments. 
 Askin Capital relied primarily on Wall Street banks for its supply of 
investments. Since the Granite and Quartz funds were invested prima-
rily in esoteric CMOs, the banks and the fund were heavily dependent 
on each other. The banks created “tailor-made” CMO tranches to meet 
Askin Capital’s specifications, giving them an outlet for the riskiest, and 
most troublesome, components, and in exchange provided the fund with 
collateralized financing facilities. In fact, most of Wall Street’s major 
houses 6 lent to Askin Capital on a collateralized basis, using the portfolio

--- Página 143 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
127
of CMOs as security. The fund then used the loans to acquire more CMO 
derivatives, and so on, until the portfolio was leveraged between four and 
five times. (To be sure, this type of “mutually beneficial” bank/hedge 
fund relationship reappeared in the mid-2000s, this time based on col-
lateralized debt obligation residuals, many of them backed by subprime 
mortgages). 
 The close relationship between Askin and the banks ultimately created 
problems. Since the CMOs were so complex, Askin Capital was initially 
dependent on the banks for upfront pricing and ongoing mark-to-model 
valuation (to measure investment performance and ensure a sufficient 
margin on the collateralized financing). However, the fund regularly dis-
puted the pricing it received, and eventually began valuing securities on 
its own and communicating performance figures to its investors directly. 
(Pricing for repo purposes remained the responsibility of the banks, and 
the two sets of prices eventually diverged.) 
 By mid-1993 the three sub-funds were more than 95 percent invested in 
esoteric MBS, supported by a cash cushion of only 5 percent. The concen-
trations were well in excess of those held by other MBS “specialty” funds, 
which generally limited their holdings of esoteric securities to a maxi-
mum of 20 percent. In fact, the concentrated position in highly illiquid 
securities proved to be Askin Capital’s primary weakness and led eventu-
ally to its downfall. 
 As the Federal Reserve began raising rates in early 1994, Askin Capital’s 
market-neutral strategy appeared to suffer. (The Granite portfolio might 
only have been market neutral within a relatively small 10–15 basis point 
range.) In fact, as rates had begun edging up in advance of the formal 
Federal Reserve hikes, dealers providing repo financing urged Askin 
Capital to lower its leverage, but the fund refused. Calls for repayment 
of collateralized loans intensified as a number of smaller dealers began 
liquidating their own CMO portfolios. 
 With the rising interest rates of 1994, the record number of refinanc-
ings and repayments that had occurred in October 1993 came to a sudden 
halt. Prepayments slowed dramatically, meaning the duration of MBS and 
CMOs lengthened substantially, causing the prices of many securities to 
drop by a significant amount. The most esoteric and volatile securities 
(and those most sensitive to slowing prepayment speeds) suffered badly; 
in fact, many issues within the Askin Capital portfolios plummeted in 
value. The fund, however, continued to preserve its positions and lever-
age, even through the earliest rate hikes. 
 Thereafter, events deteriorated rapidly. As Wall Street grew nervous about 
the $600 million fund and the $2 billion-plus credit it had extended, it 
lowered the prices of the CMOs held as collateral, triggering a series of

--- Página 144 ---
128 
Liquidity Risk
margin calls. Askin disputed the calls, protesting that the value had not 
fallen as low as Wall Street firms had indicated. Nevertheless, the funds 
were required to post $120 million of fresh capital in order to preserve the 
portfolios. As Askin Capital attempted to raise new money, it apparently 
refused an offer from one dealer to buy the portfolio outright, still believ-
ing that sufficient money could be raised in time to meet the margin 
calls. But investors were unwilling to post additional capital, meaning 
Askin Capital was unable to meet its obligations. Banks liquidated the 
collateral positions in an orderly, if heavily discounted, manner, repaying 
their loans and driving Askin Capital out of business. 
 When the sales were complete (a process that took a number of weeks), 
Askin’s investors had lost their full $600 million. A number of banks sus-
tained credit losses as they had failed to take sufficiently large haircuts on 
their repos (while some had discounted the esoteric CMOs by as much as 
50–70 percent, others had only done so at a 15–20 percent level, which 
was insufficient to cover the losses on disposal). 
 In the aftermath of the crisis, Askin Capital sued a number of banks, 
claiming that they had unfairly lowered prices on the securities in order 
to trigger margin calls and cover their loans. The court considering the 
affair focused on whether the sales prices were “commercially reason-
able” and concluded that they were, leaving the fund with no further 
recourse. Investors in the Askin funds sued the fund manager, claiming 
that the prices conveyed through proprietary models were inaccurate and 
misleading, and not representative of the true value of the portfolio. 
 The case of Askin Capital illustrates the effects of limited asset mar-
ketability arising from complex and highly customized investments that 
lack pricing transparency, and the damage that can be caused by hold-
ing concentrated positions driven by a single risk factor (such as inter-
est rates). The fund’s strategy was only viable in a benign interest rate 
environment; as rates rose, the losses grew. In addition, the fund relied 
heavily on financing via the repo market and had no meaningful backup 
financing sources. Furthermore, it was impacted by exogenous factors: 
not only was Askin dealing in an interest rate environment that hurt the 
value of its portfolio, it was forced to dispose of assets in a marketplace 
that was already unstable and illiquid. Many other institutional players 
had been caught off guard by the sharp rate hikes, suffering losses of their 
own. In fact, disposal occurred at the worst possible time, meaning liqui-
dation value could not be maximized. Askin Capital was thus affected by 
a number of liquidity-related problems:
 Excessive concentrations in risky, illiquid MBS and CMO assets 
 
●
 Inability to effectively price the assets in the investment portfolio 
 
●

--- Página 145 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
129
 Heavy reliance on repo financing at a large discount to carrying value 
 
●
 Insufficient liquid assets to meet obligations (e.g., only 5 percent cash 
 
●
on hand) 
 Lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●
 Lack of a contingency plan to deal with a disaster scenario based on a 
 
●
sharp rise in interest rates. 
 Orange County (1994) 
 Orange County (OC), a prosperous region of Southern California, was 
the site of significant leverage and liquidity-induced problems that led to 
its bankruptcy in late 1994. The county’s problems emanated from the 
Orange County Investment Pool (OCIP), a municipal investment fund 
managed by long-time county treasurer Robert Citron. Over the course of 
22 years Citron built a solid record as a capable investment manager that 
was routinely able to outperform the market and return attractive yields 
to county investors (including school districts, water councils, towns, and 
so on); OCIP boasted a long-term average yield of 9.4 percent versus an 
average 8.4 percent for other state funds. 
 In order to achieve attractive returns over the medium term, Citron 
invested OCIP funds in the US fixed income markets (primarily in 
Treasuries, agency securities, and structured notes), which he then lever-
aged. The OCIP portfolio started 1993 with a cash balance sheet value of 
approximately $7.5 billion. But Citron arranged a large number of repur-
chase agreement transactions with firms such as Merrill Lynch ($2.1 bil-
lion), Morgan Stanley ($1.6 billion), CSFB ($2.6 billion), and Nomura 
($1 billion), leveraging the portfolio several times. He also purchased a 
significant amount of structured notes that contained embedded leverage 
(such as 20-year inverse floating rate securities, paying higher coupons as 
rates fall and lower coupons as rates rise). The combination of repurchase 
agreements and structured notes meant that OCIP’s $7.5 billion portfo-
lio of securities had the same sensitivity to interest rates as a $21 billion 
portfolio – a considerable exposure to the direction of interest rates and 
the shape of the curve. Although the extra leverage provided OCIP with 
above-market yields, it also raised the fund’s risk profile dramatically and 
left it extremely vulnerable to a rise in rates. In fact, that vulnerability 
was both to price risk and liquidity risk. 
 As noted above, the Federal Reserve began the first of several interest 
rate increases in February 1994, which impacted investors holding long, 
unhedged bond positions. Though concerned, Citron and others initially 
ignored the rate hikes; the treasurer operated under the assumption that 
since OCIP was a “hold to maturity” fund that did not have to mark its

--- Página 146 ---
130 
Liquidity Risk
portfolio to market, it would ultimately crystallize a known value when 
all of the investments in the portfolio matured. However, such a strategy 
only works if the fund’s assets and liabilities are properly matched and it 
has sufficient cash to meet obligations as they come due (margin calls on 
repurchase agreements, fees, payments, and so forth). In the absence of 
cash to meet outflows a fund such as OCIP is forced to access any remain-
ing unsecured funding or dispose of assets to raise cash. In fact, OCIP had 
no meaningful access to additional unsecured funds. The large majority 
of its “repoable” securities were already pledged in support of the leverage 
program that was generating such handsome returns. Only its structured 
note portfolio was unencumbered, although its value became increas-
ingly uncertain in the rising rate environment. 
 OCIP continued to lose money as interest rates rose throughout 1994, 
and by September the fund had unrealized losses amounting to several 
hundred million dollars. By November Citron and other fund officials 
were in desperate negotiations with banks about preserving the repo 
financing. As OCIP’s remaining cash drained away, the likelihood of 
being unable to meet margin calls on the Treasury repos increased dra-
matically. The relative lack of liquidity within OCIP meant that the “hold 
to maturity” strategy was in danger of failing: the sale of Treasury collat-
eral by the banks to repay the loans they had extended would crystallize 
losses in the fund. 
 By early December it became clear that the fund lacked the cash needed 
to meet further margin calls, and officials were forced to announce that 
OCIP had suffered $1.5 billion of paper losses. In order to provide tem-
porary liquidity and attempt to carry the fund through its margin calls, 
JP Morgan examined the unencumbered structured note portfolio and 
offered to buy it for $4.4 billion (a $100 million profit to OCIP based on 
where they were valued, but almost certainly a low bid). County officials 
declined the offer and forced Citron to resign. 
 Several days later Nomura noted that OCIP was in technical default 
on $5 million of bonds, CSFB demanded repayment of $1.25 billion of 
repos, and a run on the fund commenced. All of the repo lenders, except 
Merrill, liquidated their collateral, forcing OCIP to crystallize more than 
$1.5 billion of losses; the county had to file for bankruptcy. Over the 
course of the ensuing weeks, the portfolio was unwound; $4.7 billion of 
proceeds were returned to the county and the rest went to repay credi-
tors. The final loss within OCIP reached $1.7 billion, including $360 mil-
lion from fixed-rate notes, $600 million-plus from inverse floaters, and 
$600 million-plus from repos. In the aftermath of the event, county offi-
cials brought a number of legal actions against Citron and the banks that 
had provided the county with leverage. 7

--- Página 147 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
131
 Orange County exemplifies the problems associated with an operating 
strategy based on a “hold to maturity” horizon. We noted in Part I that 
institutions that can match and hold assets and liabilities until maturity, 
and have enough of a buffer to meet cash calls, face little liquidity risk. 
Rarely, however, is this approach tenable, as OCIP discovered; the exces-
sive market risk exposure the fund held in an adverse environment cre-
ated cash outflows that could not be met. In addition, the concentrated 
repo funding OCIP maintained meant it had no real financing alterna-
tives once lenders decided to withdraw their collateralized lines. The fund 
therefore suffered on various fronts:
 Excessive exposure to a single market risk factor (such as US interest 
 
●
rates) that created significant losses 
 Insufficient cash to meet obligations and absorb the growing losses 
 
●
 False comfort in not having to mark obligations to market and reveal 
 
●
unrealized losses 
 Lack of diversified funding sources 
 
●
 Improper monitoring of liquidity positions and stress scenarios (such 
 
●
as the effect of rate rises and margin calls on the funding position); 
insufficient transparency related to risk positions 
 Lack of a contingency plan to deal quickly and effectively with a dis-
 
●
aster scenario (such as sharply rising rates or withdrawal of financing 
facilities). 
 Long Term Capital Management (1998) 
 John Meriwether, former head of fixed income arbitrage at Salomon 
Brothers, founded Long Term Capital Management (LTCM) in 1993. The 
fund, which included a number of well-regarded quantitative experts and 
academics, raised over $7 billion of capital by 1994 and commenced lev-
eraged investing, focusing initially on its fixed income arbitrage exper-
tise. During its first two years of operation LTCM generated exceptionally 
good returns of 43 percent and 41 percent. By 1997, however, the team 
found that it was increasingly difficult to uncover profitable opportuni-
ties. Rapid growth in the mutual fund and hedge fund sectors meant that 
many institutions were pursuing the same investments (particularly in 
the corporate credit markets, where credit spreads tightened considerably 
as bond and loan investors demanded lower-risk premia – the lessons of 
the Mexican and Asian crises having been temporarily “forgotten”). In 
response, LTCM migrated into other areas, including those where it lacked 
the same degree of expertise or where risk levels were significantly higher, 
including equities (such as selling equity volatility and creating equity risk

--- Página 148 ---
132 
Liquidity Risk
arbitrage positions on 75+ stocks), and esoteric and illiquid fixed income 
spreads (such as long-dated callable bunds versus Deutschemark swaption 
volatility, Danish mortgages versus Danish government bonds, Italian 
treasury bills versus Lira deposits, and Russian carry trades). Importantly, 
LTCM built large positions in many of these risk classes, becoming more 
concentrated, leveraged, and illiquid in the process. 
 In late 1997 LTCM’s managers returned $2.7 billion of capital to inves-
tors as they were unable to find enough profitable investment opportuni-
ties; they did not, however, reduce their risk positions by a commensurate 
amount, meaning the fund became more leveraged and illiquid than ever 
before. 
 By mid-1998 the financial markets had become increasingly fragile; the 
Asian crisis of 1997 had left some institutional participants with losses 
and reduced risk appetites, and corporate earnings had started deterio-
rating. In July 1998 Citibank began unwinding its large fixed income 
arbitrage book, which caused LTCM – holding similar positions – to sus-
tain reasonably large losses. This was followed by news in August that 
Russia could no longer sustain the value of the rouble; the Russian central 
bank declared a domestic debt moratorium and devalued its currency. 
This event was the catalyst for much broader problems: equity volatilities 
soared, issuance and trading in the corporate bond/loan markets tempo-
rarily ceased, convergence trades diverged, and liquidity in many asset 
classes evaporated (all of which would be repeated again, in even more 
dramatic fashion, in 2007). 
 While these conditions proved problematic for many institutions, 
LTCM was particularly susceptible because of its extremely large and 
leveraged positions – positions that would have been considered too big 
under normal market circumstances, and that were enormous in rela-
tion to a market with rapidly draining liquidity. Virtually all of LTCM’s 
trading strategies became money-losers during this crucial period: pro-
prietary credit and carry trades in Russia, swap and credit spread con-
vergence strategies, short equity volatility positions, and esoteric fixed 
income spreads all reversed course, causing LTCM to lose significant 
amounts of money. By late August the fund had lost $550 million; sev-
eral weeks later total losses had reached $2.5 billion (down 52 percent 
for the year) as flight-to-quality, divergence, and volatility remained in 
full force. 
 As the crisis continued during September (including another $500 mil-
lion loss for the fund on September 21), the fund’s liquidity pressures 
increased, prompting financial regulators to intervene and inspect 
LTCM’s books (even though, as a hedge fund, it wasn’t technically under 
the jurisdiction of regulators). They discovered that the fund had lever-
aged positions that were well in excess of the market’s ability to absorb

--- Página 149 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
133
them in the event of unwinds. Balance sheet leverage had reached 30 
times (for instance, $125 billion assets supported by $4 billion of equity), 
but off-balance sheet derivative notionals of $1 trillion meant actual lev-
erage was greater than 300 times. 
 The sheer size and concentration of LTCM’s asset portfolio meant 
that it was effectively “too big to fail” – any collapse of LTCM would 
have tremendous systemic implications for other financial institutions 
(many carrying the same positions and/or acting as credit providers to 
LTCM). As regulators and banks came to realize this, a number of differ-
ent groups put forth proposals to finance or acquire the fund. Interested 
parties moved with speed and care, as they knew a single default within 
the portfolio would trigger cross-defaults and force liquidation of huge 
positions into a thin market. After intensive and rapid negotiations, a 
13-bank group arranged $3.6 billion of bailout financing in exchange for 
90 percent of the fund, intending to unwind the entire portfolio gradu-
ally through an oversight committee so as not to further damage already 
strained markets. There can be no doubt that the bailout helped prevent 
what might have been a devastating crisis. 8 
 After a few more weeks of losses markets stabilized, and the fund started 
generating earnings. By June 1999 the fund’s earnings were up 14 per-
cent, leverage was down through orderly liquidation of positions, and 
the fund was able to repay investors $300 million and the bailout group 
$1 billion. The entire fund was ultimately unwound. 
 LTCM was not alone, of course. Many financial institutions and insti-
tutional investors suffered similar losses during the same period as they 
delevered their own portfolios and liquidated assets; in some instances 
the liquidations were voluntary, in others cases they were triggered by 
standing stop-loss orders and internal/external capital and risk require-
ments. In many cases illiquid market conditions meant asset disposal 
prices were well below those predicted by  ex-ante haircuts and collater-
alization levels. 
 In the aftermath of the crisis, it became clear that LTCM’s managers 
had relied too heavily on the assumptions underpinning their pricing 
and risk models and ignored the concentrated positions they had built – 
effectively failing to take account of the illiquidity they were injecting 
into their operations. The losses investors sustained were proof of a flawed 
approach to business and a general disregard of illiquid risk positions. Of 
course, banks with lax risk management standards aided the fund. 9 Many 
banks sustained significant losses in the process and were forced to re-
evaluate their own standards and policies related to risk management, 
concentrated lending, and liquidity measurement; unfortunately, many 
of these revised standards and policies would prove absolutely inadequate 
during the financial crisis of 2007–2008. 10

--- Página 150 ---
134 
Liquidity Risk
 As noted, one of the most significant problems arose from the use of 
flawed risk models – those used to compute market and credit risks and, by 
extension, liquidity risks. For instance, many financial institutions control 
their market risks through value-at-risk (VAR) models, which, as we discuss 
in the next chapter, have certain shortcomings. During the LTCM crisis 
these flaws exacerbated matters by causing actions that increased volatility 
and drove out asset liquidity. In fairness, banks and securities firms were 
simply adhering to the regulatory rules that they were (and are) required to 
follow. (For instance the 1996 BIS Market Risk Amendment requires banks 
to use VAR models to manage their risk capital levels, flaws notwithstand-
ing; these have subsequently been amended, though perhaps not really 
repaired.) But the fundamental assumptions underpinning VAR models 
proved dangerous. Many firms believed that the statistical properties driv-
ing the models would remain stable in all market environments – hardly 
a realistic view of the world. Since participating institutions adhered to 
the same models, they all had similar responses: shifting from high- to 
low-volatility assets and from speculative to safe-haven investments. This 
meant a mass migration out of certain securities and contracts, turning 
two-way markets into one-way markets, magnifying price volatility, and 
dramatically lengthening liquidation horizons. Thus, an average size 
investment-grade corporate bond position that might have taken an hour 
to liquidate at carrying value took several days to sell at prices 10–25 per-
cent below carrying value; risks that were more speculative suffered even 
greater delays and discounts. The resulting losses were thus much larger 
than any  ex-ante statistical measure would have suggested. 
 LTCM represents an excellent example of how internal and external 
forces can join to produce significant liquidity problems for an individual 
institution and the marketplace at large. Excessive leverage, concentrated 
and illiquid risk positions, and flawed models meant prudent liquidity 
risk management was ignored. The fund (as well as a number of other 
financial institutions) thus suffered on various fronts:
 Large, leveraged concentrations in risky, illiquid assets, including eso-
 
●
teric spreads and equity arbitrage positions 
 Concentrated use of collateralized, short-term financing that could 
 
●
easily be withdrawn or cancelled and off-balance sheet leverage that 
could not easily be unwound or transferred 
 Lack of sufficient liquid assets to meet redemptions 
 
●
 Reliance on flawed risk measures, which significantly understated liq-
 
●
uidation periods and volatilities, and did not properly account for the 
possibility of changing relationships between assets 
 Lack of a contingency plan to deal with a disaster scenario (e.g., asset 
 
●
illiquidity, forced asset disposal).

--- Página 151 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
135
 General American (1999) 
 General American (GA), a US insurance group that owned and operated 
the GA Life Insurance Company, was formed to offer life insurance poli-
cies throughout the United States. At its peak in the late 1990s the insurer 
featured more than 300,000 policyholders and held a solid A1 credit rat-
ing from Moody’s; at least one reason for the strong credit rating came 
from the fact that GA was protected against capital losses through rein-
surance agreements it had in place with Reinsurance Group of America 
(RGA). 
 From a funding perspective, GA arranged much of its financing 
through ARM Financial, an intermediary that helped the insurer estab-
lish more than $7 billion of financing facilities with 40 institutional 
investors (primarily money market funds). Unfortunately, the bulk of 
the financing was short-term in nature, and it featured an excessively 
large percentage with embedded options giving investors the right to call 
back their money at very short notice. While most insurers use similar 
funding arrangements, GA was a dominant player, holding 20 percent of 
the total short-term insurer funding market and 60 percent of the sev-
en-day putable funding market. The insurer was thus at significant risk 
of having funds called away and being unable to replace them without 
sustaining a significant cost. In retrospect, it appears that GA’s manage-
ment did not believe that investors would call back their funds (or at 
least would not do so simultaneously); indeed, they had not done so for 
a period of several years, and management apparently had little reason 
to believe that the situation would change. This portion of the funding 
base was thought to be “sticky” based on past history (and recalls our 
discussion on the differences between behavioral maturities and con-
tractual maturities). 
 In the spring of 1999, however, certain investors grew nervous as a result 
of rumors related to the financial strength of RGA and ARM Financial, 
both central to GA’s operating strategy. On 5 March Moody’s downgraded 
GA from A1 to A2 over concerns about the insurer’s financial standing, 
funding status, and financing and reinsurance strategies. With rumors 
and concerns intensifying over the next few months, GA’s management 
announced on 29 July that it would absorb $3.4 billion of funding obliga-
tions under existing financing arrangements. The intent was to quell any 
negative press related to the reinsurance strategy or the funding structure. 
But on 30 July Moody’s downgraded GA from A2 to A3 on the grounds 
that the insurer’s financial flexibility would be compromised through the 
redemptions. 
 The move triggered a rapid spiral into financial distress. Following 
the downgrade, 11 money market funds put their short-term obligations

--- Página 152 ---
136 
Liquidity Risk
back to GA, requiring the insurer to repay funds within seven days. By 
2 August more investors exercised their 7- and 30-day puts, intensify-
ing the repayment cycle and the funding liquidity spiral. Although GA 
started liquidating assets in its portfolio to meet the scheduled repayment 
demands, it soon became clear that it would not have enough cash to 
complete the task; the insurer had been prepared to meet up to $3.5 bil-
lion of liabilities, but not the full $7 billion investors sought. On August 
9, just ten days after announcing its intent to recapture the funding obli-
gations, GA filed for protection with the State of Missouri’s Department 
of Insurance. 
 GA represents an important example of the speed with which a liquid-
ity spiral, created by a funding profile heavily skewed towards very short-
term liabilities and actions fuelled by market rumor, can create financial 
distress; in only ten days a solidly-rated insurer discovered that it had 
insufficient cash to repay its financial obligations. With the benefit of 
hindsight it is clear to see that GA’s funding program was severely flawed, 
and that its credit rating should have been lower in the first instance. GA 
was impacted by a number of difficulties, including:
 excessive share of a single funding market 
 
●
 use of a large amount of financing with short-term optionable char-
 
●
acteristics, including those requiring payment in only one week, and 
inadequate analysis of the “stickiness” of the financing 
 insufficient liquid assets to meet redemptions 
 
●
 lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●
 lack of a contingency plan to deal with a disaster scenario based on mul-
 
●
tiple credit downgrades and very rapid erosion of investor confidence. 
 Swissair (2001) 
 SAirGroup (SAG) – the holding company that owned Swiss national 
airline Swissair, domestic and short-haul carrier CrossAir (70 percent), 
AirGourmet catering, and majority/minority stakes in various other 
European airlines – was originally founded in 1930. After decades of 
successful operations and relatively conservative growth, SAG’s manage-
ment, led by CEO Philippe Bruggisser, commenced an aggressive, mul-
ti-year expansion plan (the “Hunter strategy”), to give SAG a stronger 
footing in pan-European and regional flight routes. Since Swissair already 
controlled a reasonable and stable share of international long-haul traffic 
to North America, South America, and Asia passing through Switzerland 
via its Zurich hub, as well as a fair amount of European short-haul travel 
passing through Basel via CrossAir, management believed that the only

--- Página 153 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
137
viable expansion opportunity was through other airlines. Directors felt 
that the company would need to acquire other airlines and develop alli-
ances if it wanted to remain Europe’s fourth largest carrier in an increas-
ingly competitive environment. 
 Unfortunately, SAG’s management found that purchasing existing 
high-quality airlines was an expensive and complex strategy. Accordingly, 
the company began acquiring stakes in second- and third-tier regional 
carriers, in some cases building up to majority interests over a period of 
time. These included Sabena (Belgium), TAP (Portugal), AOM/Air Liberte 
(France/Africa), LOT (Poland), and Air Littoral (France). The company’s 
policy of paying a full price for such carriers (which often operated with 
outdated physical equipment that ultimately needed to be replaced 
through a debt-based capital investment program) was a key factor in 
SAG’s downfall. 
 In 1998, with the acquisition strategy in full motion and global eco-
nomic business conditions remaining healthy, the company’s share price 
reached a peak of CHF500 ($308). As the company expanded (for instance 
spending on airline stakes, new capital equipment, staffing, and head-
quarters), it continued to finance itself primarily through debt. Leverage 
grew steadily, and by the turn of the millennium it was becoming a con-
siderable burden on cash flows. In addition, by 2000 it became increas-
ingly clear that air traffic within the Hunter portfolio was deteriorating 
rather than improving. The onset of the global economic slowdown and 
extreme competition from pan-European cut-rate carriers placed consid-
erable pressure on all of the company’s routes. And since SAG was one of 
the industry’s highest-cost carriers, it soon found itself experiencing seri-
ous cash flow strains. 11 
 As the company’s financial standing deteriorated, the board dismissed 
Bruggisser and abandoned the Hunter strategy. Directors also requested 
new funds from UBS and Credit Suisse, the company’s main bankers. 
Before injecting additional liquidity, however, the banks demanded 
internal reorganizations. In March, nine out of ten board members were 
ousted; the remaining director, Mario Corti, was appointed CEO. One 
month into his new role, Corti announced a $1.8 billion loss, the first in 
the airline’s 70-year history. Much of the loss – which reduced capital to 
dangerously low levels and squeezed liquidity – was attributable to the 
firm’s bloated costs and interest burden; total debt had increased from $4 
billion in 2000 to $9.2 billion in 2001 while interest expense had more 
than doubled. Lack of earnings from the poorly performing Hunter car-
riers compounded the loss (for instance, Sabena lost $180 million, TAP 
$92 million, AOM, Littoral and Liberte a combined $360 million). Corti 
put forth a restructuring plan centered on cost cuts, asset sales and a

--- Página 154 ---
138 
Liquidity Risk
delay in previously committed purchases of TAP and Sabena shares. This 
move preserved cash, allowing Corti to work on a more comprehensive 
plan, including arranging a more robust and reliable banking facility to 
ensure ongoing availability of funds. 
 Shortly thereafter, however, SAG was forced to deal with the collapse 
of Air Liberte and a massive restructuring at Sabena. Corti presented the 
board with a second reorganization plan on 24 September, just two weeks 
after the terrorist attacks in the United States brought international air 
travel to a temporary halt. The restructuring called for the creation of 
a new carrier, Swiss Airlines, comprised of Swissair and CrossAir (based 
on the latter’s low-cost model), along with staff reductions to help bring 
costs under control and conserve cash. 
 However, the company was using its available cash resources at a very 
rapid rate. Since revenues from new travel were not replenishing cash, 
the firm’s overall liquidity position grew increasingly fragile. (Indeed, 
the defensive interval, a measure of a firm’s ability to manage cash out-
flows without access to new funding or revenue inflows, was decreasing 
quickly.) By late September several small banks cut their credit lines to 
SAG. At this stage the company had less than $120 million in liquid assets 
on hand, barely enough to keep flying for a few days. 
 With a liquidity disaster already well in progress, UBS and Credit 
Suisse agreed, on 29 September, to purchase a $160 million stake in 
CrossAir and grant an interim credit of $150 million, guaranteeing 
flights through October 3. With the ownership stake in hand, the bank 
syndicate was expected to arrange for more stable credit facilities for the 
period extending beyond 3 October. In a curious turn of events, how-
ever, execution of loan documents and dispersal of funds were delayed, 
meaning SAG literally ran out of money and could no longer fly. On 
3 October SAG cancelled all outstanding flights and filed for bank-
ruptcy protection (leaving 39,000 ticket holders to join the creditors’ 
queue); shares plunged from CHF100 to CHF1.27 in a single day. UBS 
and Credit Suisse were maligned in the national press for not providing 
funds on time or being more effective in preventing what many termed 
a “national tragedy.” 
 On 3 October the Swiss Bundesrat (upper house of parliament) granted 
temporary credits so that the airline could fly in limited form until a reor-
ganization plan was developed. As events unfolded, it became increas-
ingly obvious that SAG’s board and management, as well as politicians, 
had been aware of the company’s fragile financial position for weeks 
(and in some cases months), and knew that very drastic actions would be 
required – including politically unpopular wage and staff cuts. Although 
some members of the Bundesrat later admitted that they knew about 
SAG’s financial weakness, most indicated that they had not expected the

--- Página 155 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
139
final stage to unfold as quickly as it ultimately did. The leading finance 
representative of the Bundesrat was later quoted in the  Neue Zuricher 
Zeitung as saying that the government “underestimated the internal 
dynamics of such a liquidity crisis and thus the speed at which the situa-
tion could come to a head.” Corti disputed that claim, noting that he had 
approached the Bundesrat members prior to 1 October with details on the 
firm’s growing illiquidity and a request for $300 million in credit. When 
the Bundesrat failed to take action at that point, SAG and the banks were 
on their own. 
 A restructuring operation followed the bankruptcy filing. Corti and 
most of the board were dismissed and a new CEO was appointed. CrossAir 
absorbed two-thirds of Swissair’s existing flights in order to keep traffic 
moving. A 70 percent stake in CrossAir was taken up by the two lead banks 
for $150 million, and the Swiss federal and cantonal governments agreed 
to contribute funds as well – at a total cost to taxpayers of nearly $2.5 bil-
lion. (The final shareholding split, agreed by shareholders in December 
2001, included approximately 65 percent to individual and institutional 
investors (including 10 percent each to UBS and Credit Suisse), 20 percent 
to the federal government, and 12 percent to the cantonal governments.) 
CrossAir was transformed into the new Swiss International Airlines in 
December 2001. 
 The SAG situation reflects a series of strategic management problems 
that resulted in the implementation of a flawed expansion plan using a 
very large amount of debt financing. The leverage placed considerable 
financial strain on the firm’s operating income. When this was coupled 
with poorly performing airline subsidiaries (most with negative cash 
flow), external events that sharply reduced international travel dur-
ing a critical time in the company’s attempts at reorganization, politi-
cal infighting, and lack of aggressive management in the face of rapidly 
declining cash balances, SAG was left without liquid resources when it 
needed them the most. Unlike the Enron case discussed below, however, 
there is widespread belief that with sufficient cash on hand and a more 
aggressive turnaround plan in place, SAG could have reversed its fortunes 
without being forced to enter bankruptcy. Ultimately the airline suffered 
on various fronts:
 Excessive leverage and resulting interest burden that detracted substan-
 
●
tially from cash flow 
 Poorly performing subsidiary operations that absorbed valuable cash 
 
●
resources 
 Lack of sufficient liquid assets to meet daily operating requirements 
 
●
 Heavy dependence on the actions of two large lenders to arrange 
 
●
financing

--- Página 156 ---
140 
Liquidity Risk
 Insufficient unencumbered assets on hand to secure emergency 
 
●
funding 
 Lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●
 Lack of an aggressive crisis management plan. 
 
●
 Enron (2001) 
 The case of Enron, the Houston-based energy concern, has been widely 
reported and analyzed in the press, given its position as one of the largest 
bankruptcies in US corporate history. Although there is much to con-
sider in relation to flawed governance, we shall focus primarily on the 
firm’s liquidity crisis – a general by-product of fraud and poor internal 
controls. 12 
 Enron was created in 1985 through the merger of natural gas pipeline 
companies in Nebraska and Texas; Ken Lay assumed the role of chairman 
and CEO, a position he held through most of the next 16 years. Although 
Enron focused on the integrated gas sourcing and delivery business for 
several years, it began realigning its operations in the early 1990s, prima-
rily by matching buyers and sellers of gas and taking fees for intermediat-
ing. On the surface, Enron’s model appeared successful and became the 
basis for subsequent trading and risk management endeavors. 
 The process accelerated when Jeff Skilling, future president (and, for 
a time in 2001, CEO), joined the company. Under Skilling’s direction, 
Enron shed more of its physical properties, converting from an asset-inten-
sive natural gas pipeline to an “asset-light” trader – resembling, in many 
ways, a financial trading institution. During its conversion the company 
actively monetized many of its fixed assets: selling plant and equipment 
used in the core energy business to realize current period cash, rather 
than preserving assets for the long term to generate ongoing operating 
cash flow. (Indeed, the lack of cash flow proved to be a perpetual problem 
for the company, and one that led the firm’s executive officers to engage 
in fraudulent behavior.) Given the firm’s strong trading focus, it is worth 
recalling our remarks from Chapter 2: financial trading firms are highly 
leveraged institutions that must preserve a large amount of liquid assets 
in order to meet obligations and supply liquidity to others. Enron lacked 
a strong buffer of liquid assets, a fact that became all too clear in its final 
months. Trading business is also driven by reputation, and any damage 
to that reputation can result in loss of flows and revenues and, from a 
liquidity perspective, vital cash. Again, Enron discovered the importance 
of reputation as its fortunes turned. 
 As the US energy market deregulated and energy prices grew more vola-
tile, Enron’s model appeared sound: revenues grew rapidly and permitted 
expansion into new areas. During the boom years of the late 1990s the

--- Página 157 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
141
company positioned itself as a trader of virtually any type of asset – pulp 
and paper, weather, commodities, credits, and so on. It also expanded 
into areas that it thought would benefit from rapid growth, including 
water distribution, fibre optic capacity/Internet bandwidth, and so on. 
These were capital-intensive businesses that were not profitable (and were 
often cash flow negative); indeed, the company ultimately lost an esti-
mated $7 billion on its ill-advised investments in bandwidth and water 
(as well as energy operations in Brazil and India). Still, analysts and inves-
tors remained positive about Enron and its prospects. Quarter after quar-
ter of improving earnings in the 1990s caused the stock price to increase 
steadily (including doublings in 1998 and 1999). 
 In early 2001 Enron reported revenues of $100 billion and ranked sev-
enth on the Fortune 500 list of the largest global companies. With a record 
stock price near $90, Enron’s market capitalization reached $60 billion – 
far greater than many industrial companies and financial institutions. 
Even as it reached these lofty heights, however, the company was in des-
perate need of cash; in fact, it had actively engaged in large “prepay” 
swap transactions with Citibank and JP Morgan for a number of years in 
order to generate enough cash to pay for its operations. Since prepays are 
off-balance sheet transactions that act as loans but do not impact balance 
sheet or leverage ratios, Enron was able to secure the cash it needed with-
out alerting investors, rating agencies, and other creditors to the fact that 
its actual cash position was extremely weak. 
 In early 2001 the company’s problems started mounting: the Internet 
and telecom bubble burst, calling into question the firm’s aggressive 
and expensive expansion into the broadband sector. With a slowing 
economy and a sliding stock market, Enron’s own stock price started 
falling. The decline in the stock price triggered certain covenants in 
disclosed and undisclosed financial contracts that added to the com-
pany’s financial pressures. In August 2001 CEO Skilling left the com-
pany for “personal reasons,” unsettling investors even further; former 
CEO Lay returned to his old role. While this was under way, whistle-
blowers within the firm – aware of widespread financial improprie-
ties – attempted to convey information to the board of directors; one 
employee was finally successful in alerting certain board members that 
all was not well. 
 The house of cards  began collapsing shortly thereafter – disclosure of 
financial errors and internal manipulation radically changed the finan-
cial profile of the company. Much of the problem centered on obscure 
and complex dealings between Enron and various special purpose enti-
ties (SPEs); 13 although these were meant to be “arm’s length” dealings, 
they were intricately entwined with Enron’s own financial structure and 
performance.

--- Página 158 ---
142 
Liquidity Risk
 In mid-October 2001 the company announced a $544 million after-tax 
charge against LJM2, an SPE created and managed by Enron CFO Andrew 
Fastow. The firm also announced a $1.2 billion reduction in shareholders’ 
equity as a result of improperly accounted transactions between Enron 
and an SPE. The news shocked investors and analysts, who had come to 
believe and support the Enron strategy and growth story (and ever-esca-
lating share price). The company’s reputation suffered, and various trad-
ing counterparties altered their credit terms: while Enron had previously 
traded primarily on an unsecured basis (even with its BBB+ rating), it was 
now being asked by some of its dealing counterparties to post collateral, 
an action that consumed precious resources and encumbered its balance 
sheet. The rating agencies placed the company on negative credit watch. 
 One month later the firm was again forced to restate its earnings from 
1997 to 2001 as a result of accounting errors; 14 the restatements reduced 
net income over the four-year period by nearly $1 billion, lowered share-
holder’s equity by $2 billion and brought an additional $2.58 billion of 
debt onto the balance sheet – changing, rather dramatically, the com-
pany’s already significant leverage profile and making clearer the fact 
that Enron’s supposedly strong record of earnings was largely a fabrica-
tion. The news was accompanied by the fact that Fastow and several other 
Enron employees had profited handsomely from the partnership transac-
tions. These events caused the rating agencies to downgrade the company 
to the borderline of junk status, and caused even more counterparties to 
pull back on their credit facilities to the firm. The firm’s reputation suf-
fered a marked blow, and trading flows all but ceased. 
 Enron’s downfall accelerated from this point on. Citibank and JP Morgan 
remained committed to lending Enron additional cash throughout much 
of November, granting $1 billion of fresh money against Enron’s last 
unencumbered assets (two pipeline systems in the western United States). 
Even as the banks were lending, however, Citibank’s due diligence team 
uncovered the fact that by the end of the first quarter of 2002, based on 
no new “prepay swaps” or asset sales, Enron would have a negative cash 
position of nearly $1.6 billion; by the end of 2002 the gap would grow 
to negative $10 billion. (Enron officers did not concur with the assess-
ment, as they believed that they would be able to secure $6 billion-plus 
of prepays in 2002 and could supplement the cash position with another 
$3 billion in asset sales.) By any reasonable measure, the company’s cash 
position was in massive deficit. 
 During the Thanksgiving weekend Citibank and JP Morgan attempted 
one more time to raise additional funds for the company, but the effort 
was for naught; the gap was too large to be filled, and no further hard 
assets remained to be taken as collateral – the two banks were unwilling

--- Página 159 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
143
to provide further funds. The final act took place in late November when 
other banks started cancelling Enron’s remaining liquidity facilities; 
rumors of imminent bankruptcy were rampant. The firm’s core trad-
ing business was no longer generating cash, and collateral calls could no 
longer be met. When it became clear that Enron lacked cash and could 
no longer survive the crisis of confidence, Lay attempted to team up with 
cross-town rival Dynegy for an eleventh-hour merger; however, even 
Dynegy did not like what it uncovered in its due diligence and scuttled 
the deal days later. With no more cash on hand to meet current obliga-
tions, Enron filed for bankruptcy protection on 2 December. 
 During the reorganization process the company sold off a number of 
remaining fixed assets and conveyed the remainder of its energy trading 
business to UBS. Most stakeholders suffered considerably: shareholders 
saw the value of their investments vaporize almost completely, thou-
sands of employees lost their jobs, and creditors lost billions of dollars. 
Investigations ultimately revealed that the company suffered from wide-
spread financial misrepresentation, mismanagement (including misman-
agement of liquid resources), fraud, self-dealing, conflicts of interest, and 
unethical behavior, as well as weak controls and a flawed corporate gov-
ernance process. 15 
 Enron serves as an important illustration of how a firm that is engaged 
in a leveraged trading business without sufficient liquid resources or 
credit standing can soon find itself in dire straits. Fraud aside, in the last 
three years of its existence the company relied heavily on trading rev-
enues to keep its operations functioning, but it mismanaged the process 
by holding insufficient liquid and unencumbered assets. When market 
confidence eroded and funding sources began evaporating, its trading 
business could no longer be sustained, meaning cash flows from its only 
truly profitable operation came to a halt. 
 The case also illustrates how quickly a crisis of confidence can sub-
sume a company, leading to a halt in business (and the vital cash flows 
that result) and the withdrawal of funding alternatives. From October to 
November 2001 the company tried desperately to assuage its investors and 
creditors by “confessing” to accounting errors and internal fraud; such 
actions were insufficient, however, partly because the firm had no effec-
tive crisis management program. Although the creditor team attempted 
to bridge the gap for a time by providing access to additional funds, even 
that proved insufficient for the marketplace at large. Of course, it is not 
clear that Enron could have survived over the medium term, even with 
additional liquidity injections from the banking community, or from a 
hasty merger with Dynegy. The financial fraud that destroyed the com-
pany’s reputation ran very deep and had a material impact on the firm’s

--- Página 160 ---
144 
Liquidity Risk
credit profile. It seems likely, however, that the firm could have existed 
for at least several more months with appropriate access to liquidity; 
whether some alternate restructuring solution might have surfaced over 
that time to help prevent large losses for the community of stakeholders 
is unknown. 
 Reverting to our discussion from earlier in the book, Enron suffered on 
various fronts:
 Near-total reliance on market/reputation-based trading business to 
 
●
generate cash flows to meet obligations 
 Use of a large amount of short-term financing that could easily be 
 
●
withdrawn or cancelled 
 Insufficient liquid or unencumbered assets to meet obligations or the 
 
●
collateral calls necessary to continue operating its trading business 
 Squandering of cash resources on capital-intensive, but negative cash 
 
●
flow, business ventures 
 Lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●
 Lack of a contingency plan to deal with a disaster scenario based on 
 
●
rapid erosion of lender and investor confidence. 
 Northern Rock (2008) 
 Northern Rock, a large financial institution that had become a “household 
name” throughout the UK in the 1990s and into the millennium, was the 
product of a series of mergers between several small building societies 
between 1965 and the 1980s. After achieving a critical mass of assets and 
establishing itself as a known brand name in the mid-1990s, it decided 
to demutualize in 1997 by floating on the London Stock Exchange. The 
additional capital it raised through the process allowed it to continue 
expanding its residential mortgage portfolio, and by the turn of the mil-
lennium it had become one of the country’s top 5 mortgage lenders, with 
90 percent of its balance sheet comprised of mortgages. It became a con-
stituent of the FTSE 100 Index in 2001 and continued steady expansion 
of its balance sheet in the low interest rate environment. Between 2002 
and 2006 the market value of the bank nearly doubled to £5 billion, based 
partly on the 20 percent average return on equity it was producing for its 
shareholders. 
 Northern Rock’s peak balance sheet of £100 billion in assets (2006) 
was supported by significant borrowing from the international capital 
markets and institutional depositors; in the lead-up to the crisis period, 
between 70 and 75 percent of the bank’s liabilities were drawn from these 
institutional sources (e.g., securitization, wholesale deposits, covered

--- Página 161 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
145
bonds), with the bulk of those concentrated in short-term maturities. 
Retail deposits accounted for 25–30 percent of total funding, a figure that 
would decline further as the financial crisis commenced. Given the bank’s 
financing profile, the stage was set for funding instability and liquidity 
pressures. 
 Northern Rock used its access to capital markets financing to fund not 
only conventional residential mortgages (with standard loan-to-value 
(LTV) ratios in the 70% to 80% range) but also those of a more speculative 
nature, including buy-to-let loans (e.g., mortgages for investment proper-
ties) as well as a range of subprime (e.g., lower credit quality/higher risk) 
mortgage equivalents, like no documentation/self-employed loans (i.e., 
“self-certs”) and highly leveraged loans (e.g., 125% loans); this portion 
of the bank’s portfolio was very similar to the subprime portfolios origi-
nated by various US banks prior to, and during, the crisis. Interestingly, 
Northern Rock also entered into an arrangement with Lehman Brothers 
in 2006 where it lent its name to subprime mortgages underwritten by the 
US investment bank (we consider the Lehman case in the section below). 
The bank grew very rapidly during the early 2000s, and in 2006 its mort-
gage loan growth reached a rather remarkable 30 percent. Unfortunately, 
these long-term assets were funded primarily with short-term funds, and 
were supported by a very thin capital base (i.e., capital to assets of only 
2%) – both of which made it extremely vulnerable to risk dislocations. 
 The bank’s business and risk strategy centered on the “originate to dis-
tribute” model: rather than holding the mortgages on its balance sheet, 
Northern Rock had the pools securitized and rated by one or more rat-
ing agencies, selling the resulting securities to a base of investors. By the 
end of 2006 the securitization portfolio had reached a rather significant 
£40.3 billion. Unfortunately, and in common with other banks perform-
ing similar functions, Northern Rock had an increasing amount of trou-
ble distributing tranches of all issues or, indeed, securitizing its conduits, 
meaning that its own holdings of assets that would ultimately become 
highly illiquid grew rapidly heading into 2007. In addition, the bank 
supplemented its risky mortgage lending and securitization with addi-
tional investments in portfolios of mortgage-backed securities. Though 
ostensibly held for investment purposes (and, arguably, as something of a 
liquidity buffer since most were AAA and AA rated and therefore thought 
to be quite marketable), the securities portfolio would ultimately add to 
the bank’s considerable challenges since the portfolio’s performance was 
completely correlated with the performance of its core business . 
 Despite these facts, statements by Chairman Matt Ridley in early 2007 
reflected confidence in both the business model and in the bank’s ability 
to properly manage its credit risks and balance sheet risks. In fact, there

--- Página 162 ---
146 
Liquidity Risk
was little concern about the state of the market in early 2007, with Ridley 
noting that “we continue to see little prospect of a severe house price 
correction … support for the housing market remains strong.” 16 During 
this critical period the bank continued originating mortgages at a very 
rapid pace: in the first half of 2007 it accounted for 25 percent of all UK 
mortgage origination, sharply outpacing either its deposit growth or its 
ability to sell down its securitization pipeline – and setting the stage 
for a severe liquidity squeeze. Growing instability in global housing and 
credit markets, which appeared during the first quarter of 2007, acceler-
ated over the summer; the value of US, UK, and European residential 
housing declined sharply, putting many mortgages “underwater” (e.g., 
mortgage balances greater than the worth of the property). As noted in 
Chapter 1, by August 2007 major dislocations in asset markets were occur-
ring, and the first casualties of the financial crisis of 2007–2008 were 
appearing on the radar screen. Indeed, Northern Rock has the dubious 
distinction of being among the first of the major financial institutions 
(along with Industriekredietbank (IKB) of Germany) to stumble – mov-
ing into a stage of critical financial distress months before events hit 
Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, IndyMac, Washington Mutual, AIG and 
various others. 
 Northern Rock’s downfall began on 13 September 2007, when the Bank 
of England announced that it had provided the institution with liquidity 
assistance (despite Northern Rock’s claim in February 2007 that funding 
had been expanded and diversified). The move struck analysts as a curi-
ous one, as Northern Rock was not considered to be systemically impor-
tant or, indeed, “too big to fail.” In fact, Bank of England’s announcement 
created instability rather than reassurance: news of the bank’s weak 
liquidity position and its need for central bank assistance created a panic 
amongst depositors, causing retail customers to queue up to withdraw 
their savings. The vivid “bank run” images shown on television created 
nervousness amongst other depositors, leading to more than £3 billion 
in retail deposit withdrawals between 14 and 17 September. In order to 
halt what would have become a full-fledged bank run, the Chancellor of 
the Exchequer stepped in on the 17th to declare that deposits would be 
fully insured (rather than just covered up to the £35,000 level set by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme). 17 A bank run was halted only 
because of government intervention. 
 Interestingly, while the retail withdrawals were real and of concern, 
the bank’s true funding problems came from its institutional customers: 
sophisticated international money managers and other interbank players 
stopped their rollovers/renewals of CDs and other bank liabilities (despite 
the Treasury guarantee) in a “silent run.” In fact, of some £10 billion of

--- Página 163 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
147
deposits lost during the critical September–November period, more than 
two-thirds came from institutional depositors. 
 By late 2007 Northern Rock was attempting to weather a storm that 
was hitting it on three fronts: losses from write-downs of its mortgage-
backed securities portfolio (which no longer served as a meaningful 
source of liquidity, either due to prior encumbrances or to the declining 
creditworthiness and value of the assets), losses from bad loan charges 
to its mortgage portfolio (and in particular the subprime component), 
and continuous difficulties in raising funds. As the situation moved to a 
critical stage, the bank’s directors and executives held discussions with 
at least two other banks about being acquired, but no agreement could 
be reached. By February 2008 it was clear that the bank could no longer 
survive on its own; funding shortfalls and operating losses had become 
untenable. Accordingly, HM Treasury stepped in with £27 billion in res-
cue funds (plus additional loan guarantees), assuming “temporary pub-
lic ownership” of the bank (which at least some politicians and analysts 
criticized, since Northern Rock had always been known as a “high risk” 
institution). As part of the government intervention, the bank agreed to 
repay the government within four years through deleveraging, cost cut-
ting and a renewed focus on prime mortgage lending business. The bank 
was able to reduce the balance owed to the government to £9 billion 
by 2009, after which it received permission to borrow once again from 
the Treasury in an effort to expand prime mortgage activities. Northern 
Rock was ultimately sold by the government to UK conglomerate Virgin 
in 2012, ending the multi-year saga. A Treasury Committee analyzing the 
disaster  ex-post had scathing words for the bank’s directors and managers: 
“The high risk, reckless business strategy of Northern Rock with its reli-
ance on short- and medium-term wholesale funding and absence of suf-
ficient insurance and a failure to oversee that risk meant it was unable to 
cope with the liquidity pressures placed upon it by a freezing of interna-
tional capital markets in August 2007.” 18 An examination of its downfall 
reveals a number of liquidity-related problems:
 A general policy of funding long-term mortgage assets (both prime and 
 
●
subprime) with short-term funds 
 Significant reliance on volatile, short-term, wholesale funding 
 
●
 A risky business model that required a liquid and well-bid securitiza-
 
●
tion market in order to succeed 
 An investment portfolio that contained an excessive concentration in 
 
●
risky, correlated securities that were ultimately illiquid and could only 
be repoed at a fraction of their stated value 
 Lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●

--- Página 164 ---
148 
Liquidity Risk
 Lack of a contingency funding plan to enact prior to the onset of 
 
●
deposit withdrawals. 
 Lehman Brothers (2008) 
 US investment bank Lehman Brothers, originally founded in 1850, oper-
ated as an independent commodity trading and securities firm during 
its early history. In 1984, as the family partnership structure faded away, 
the firm sold itself to the combined Shearson/American Express finan-
cial giant, becoming the Shearson Lehman Brothers investment banking 
subsidiary, offering a full range of banking, sales and trading services; 
the acquisition of retail broker EF Hutton in 1988 further expanded the 
bank’s reach (known at that point as Shearson Lehman Hutton). In 1994 
American Express, under pressure to streamline operations and improve 
its own performance, divested portions of its financial empire, selling the 
Shearson/Hutton retail brokerage operations to Primerica and floating the 
Lehman Brothers trading and investment banking operations through a 
separate IPO. 
 The newly independent Lehman continued to strengthen its franchise 
in bond trading and made further inroads in equity trading and invest-
ment banking. The bank expanded aggressively and profitably under the 
leadership of CEO Dick Fuld during the latter half of the 1990s, becoming 
one of the top US investment banks in various business lines, including 
advisory, capital markets and trading. In the period leading up to the 
2007 financial crisis, Lehman had also become increasingly involved in 
commercial mortgages and real estate, including originating, structuring 
and then securitizing mortgages (using the same “originate to distrib-
ute” model noted above). It also operated a significant residential mort-
gage origination/securitization business, which included dealings in the 
subprime sector (both in the US and the UK). Given its fixed-income 
expertise, the bank also carried large portfolios of mortgage securities, 
structured credits and leveraged loans on its balance sheet. 
 Unfortunately, the combination of these assets, along with a flawed 
funding plan, would ultimately come back to haunt the bank. In fact, 
Lehman was somewhat unique in being one of a very few “systemically 
important” institutions that was permitted by regulatory authorities to 
go bankrupt during the financial crisis (even as others received some 
sort of bailout, arranged acquisition or temporary capital). In the end, 
Lehman was not “too big to fail,” though its collapse in late September 
2008 set in motion a series of emergency measures by global regulators 
who were afraid that other institutions would soon follow Lehman into 
bankruptcy. While the causes of the bank’s rather swift demise were

--- Página 165 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
149
varied and complex, lack of sufficient liquidity and market access in the 
critical days of September were certainly at the heart of the matter. 
 While Lehman suffered in 2007 like all of its peers – posting losses on 
its massive fixed income portfolios and securitizations – its downfall came 
in 2008, accelerating after Bear Stearns’s own rapid decline (as noted in 
Chapter 1, Bear found itself short of cash and without the confidence of 
its trading partners in March 2008, and succumbed to an arranged acqui-
sition by JP Morgan (which enjoyed a partial US Treasury backstop on part 
of the Bear operation)). Despite the sobering example of Bear, Lehman 
apparently believed its own liquidity management processes were suffi-
cient to cope with the growing market stress. In fact, throughout this crit-
ical period Lehman touted the prowess of its internal treasury function, 
which was responsible for arranging the bank’s short- and long-term debt 
issues, managing the equity plan, developing short-term liquidity projec-
tions and reporting on its liquidity pool, cash capital and secured fund-
ing. 19 The treasury function, which had been developed in the aftermath 
of the LTCM crisis (above), functioned on the basis of several core princi-
ples, which included remaining in a state of constant liquidity readiness, 
avoiding any reliance on asset sales or unsecured debt access during cri-
sis periods, and communicating regularly with stakeholders; the bank’s 
management believed that these conservative approaches would deliver 
a competitive advantage of sorts. In fact, Lehman’s philosophy on liquid-
ity management appears to have been sensible: maintaining a large cash/
cash equivalent position, declining to believe the balance sheet could 
be reduced in times of stress, creating reliable secured funding through 
counterparty relationships (available in all market conditions), and rais-
ing separate cash capital for each legal entity. From Lehman’s perspective 
liquidity management centered on three distinct elements: the liquidity 
pool (designed to cover cash outflows over 12 months), cash capital (for 
funding of illiquid assets and contingent risks, primarily through equity, 
medium- and long-term liabilities and core stable deposits at its bank-
ing subsidiaries), and secured funding (for coverage of all collateralized 
financings). The firm’s management team established a target level of 
cash to ensure liquidity of $2 billion+ after a 90-day stress event, which 
would be sufficient to cover all outflows for one year. The firm also pro-
moted funding diversification (by type, current and market) and sought 
to manage rollover risk by limiting unsecured short-term financing in the 
commercial paper market. Unfortunately, it did not adhere to all of these 
seemingly sensible directives. 
 Like other banks, Lehman experienced a difficult summer 2008 as the 
markets continued to fall and capital accounts were gradually eroded. The 
bank reported a nearly $3 billion loss in June from its mortgage portfolios,

--- Página 166 ---
150 
Liquidity Risk
leveraged loans, and other fixed income products, and began a process 
of deleveraging – apparently failing to realize that reducing the balance 
sheet in times of market stress is exceedingly difficult and very costly, 
and effectively contravening its own philosophy on the matter (as noted 
above). Throughout this period financial analysts questioned the valua-
tions being applied to the bank’s rather illiquid leveraged loan, structured 
credit, and mortgage portfolios, which were being marked-to-model in 
the absence of liquid pricing benchmarks. There was at least some con-
cern that Lehman was not being as aggressive in recognizing losses on 
its positions as some of its competitors, suggesting overvaluation and lax 
risk management controls – both of which became particularly evident 
during the  ex post bankruptcy proceedings, when mismarked deals, enor-
mous amounts of risk, and some questionable repo transactions (whose 
sole purpose was to make the bank’s balance sheet appear more attractive, 
in shades of Enron), were uncovered. 
 During mid-2008 Lehman was faced with the growing realization that 
it was running short of capital. Steady write-downs in 2007 and 2008 
(and with the promise of more to come) had shrunk the bank’s capital to 
critical levels. Unfortunately, attempts to raise additional capital during 
the summer led nowhere as Fuld reportedly drove a hard bargain with 
would-be investors. Intensive discussions with the Korea Development 
Bank in August and September were eventually put on hold by the Korean 
bank – meaning Lehman’s last realistic attempts to raise capital and shore 
up investor confidence had failed, a fact that shook the market. 
 Of course, lack of capital wasn’t the bank’s only problem. Though, 
as noted above, the bank had a liquidity management process that was 
intended to create a sufficient cash buffer, even under difficult condi-
tions, the process ultimately failed to adequately protect the bank’s bal-
ance sheet or its operations. In addition to holding an excess amount of 
difficult-to-value illiquid assets, Lehman relied too heavily on short-term 
unsecured and secured (repo) funding. Though the bank had attempted 
to wean itself off of the CP market, knowing that it was an unstable 
source of financing, it failed to do so in the earliest stages of the crisis 
(again in contravention of its stated policy). For example, in 2007 its aver-
age outstanding balance was $3.1 billion (already up from $1.6 billion 
in 2003), but by the second quarter of 2008 it had reached $8 billion 
as other sources of financing dried up. Its overnight repo book had also 
grown dramatically and was becoming burdensome to roll over every day; 
rollovers were highly dependent on the comfort level of counterparties, 
who could choose at a day’s notice not to roll over their capital. While 
Lehman’s holdings of high quality (i.e., US and European government) 
liquid securities were still repoable in the second and third quarters, the

--- Página 167 ---
Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
151
illiquid nature of much of the rest of the bank’s asset portfolio did not 
help matters: it was virtually impossible for the bank to borrow against 
highly illiquid leveraged loans, mortgages or mortgage-backed securities, 
as the required haircuts would have yielded Lehman cents on the dollar – 
insufficient to fund its obligations. 
 By late August rumors of imminent collapse were gathering force. 
Reports of a nearly $4 billion third-quarter loss surprised the market, and 
by 8 September a large number of counterparts had cancelled their repo 
lines and pulled other financing facilities. The bank’s funding shortfall 
was growing, and its struggle to manage daily net cash outflows intensi-
fied ; in fact, the $45 billion liquidity pool that management had boasted 
of during the summer had effectively evaporated, with only $1 billion on 
hand in the lead-up to the fateful weekend of 13 September. 
 Whilst at least some market participants pinned their hopes on an 11th-
hour government-orchestrated “arranged marriage” similar to that of JP 
Morgan/Bear, there was little appetite in government circles to support 
such a deal. Officials believed that Lehman lacked enough good collateral 
to allow for a Treasury guarantee structure (such as was used for Bear and, 
later, for insurance giant AIG). Even though a few banks, including Barclays, 
had a look at acquiring Lehman on 13 and 14 September, there were ulti-
mately no takers. According to CEO Fuld, “by the end of that Sunday, it 
was obvious that the Federal Reserve had made a decision it would not pro-
vide support for a transaction involving Lehman Brothers. Had that deci-
sion been different, further dislocations in the markets might have been 
avoided.”  20 In fact, the filing of bankruptcy petitions in multiple jurisdic-
tions on 15 September spelled the end of Lehman, and the beginning of 
a very tense and volatile time for the financial markets – which included 
the rescues/bailouts/recapitalizations of AIG, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
and many large US and international banks. In the end, Lehman’s liquidity 
risk process was simply not up to the task of coping with a true stress event. 
Fuld, on the record, remained insistent that Lehman could have survived 
had it been granted the necessary “liquidity bridge.” Lehman ultimately 
became a prime example of a liquidity-induced collapse:
 Use of an excessive amount of short-term financing that could easily 
 
●
be withdrawn or cancelled (such as CP and Treasury repos) 
 Large concentrations in risky, illiquid mortgages, mortgage securi-
 
●
ties, leveraged loans and structured credit products that could not be 
posted as collateral in refinancing, or which commanded extremely 
large haircuts 
 Insufficient liquid assets to meet accelerating redemptions and other 
 
●
obligations

--- Página 168 ---
152 
Liquidity Risk
 Lack of alternative funding sources for emergency draw-down 
 
●
 Lack of lender confidence in the bank’s balance sheet and its asset val-
 
●
uation process 
 Mishandling of capital-raising issue at a critical juncture. 
 
●
 The cases we have presented in this chapter are representative of problems 
that can arise when asset, funding, or joint liquidity difficulties appear. 
As we have noted, they represent the most extreme instances of liquid-
ity problems, culminating in severe financial distress and/or insolvency. 
Although each case is unique, certain common threads run through all 
of them: lack of sufficient unencumbered assets to pledge as a “last stop” 
measure; reliance on a limited number of funding sources; insufficient 
analysis of the potential downside liquidity disaster scenarios; and lack of 
truly robust, and aggressive, crisis management plans to deal with rapidly 
accelerating crises. In fact, the inability to deal forcefully with liquidity 
pressures and attempt to shore up investor and/or creditor confidence is 
a “fatal” problem in each case. As we consider the effective management 
of liquidity risk in the next part of the book, we shall recall some of the 
practical instances of distress and failure and how these can be overcome 
with a robust risk management framework.

--- Página 169 ---
Part III 
 Managing Liquidity Risks

--- Página 170 ---
155
 8 
 Measuring Liquidity Risk 
 In the first two parts of this book we have considered why liquidity is 
so vital to corporate operations and illustrated what can go wrong, in 
theory and practice, if it is mishandled. The degree of financial dam-
age that can arise varies. In some cases it may be limited to losses from 
higher funding costs or asset disposals at prices below carrying value; in 
other cases it may be more serious, extending ultimately to instances of 
financial distress and insolvency. Every entity exposed to liquidity risk 
must therefore attempt to avoid damage through a liquidity risk manage-
ment process. An effective framework, our topic in this part of the text, is 
based on a number of fundamental elements. In this chapter we discuss 
the measurement of liquidity risk through various tools, in Chapter 9 we 
consider ways of managing liquidity risk as part of the corporate process, 
and in Chapter 10 we discuss the development and implementation of a 
liquidity crisis management plan. In Chapter 11 we consider various new 
regulatory initiatives that have been developed in the wake of the finan-
cial crisis of 2007–2008; we summarize key thoughts on active liquidity 
risk management in Chapter 12. 
 Common Liquidity Measures 
 Measuring liquidity risk can be challenging, primarily because the under-
lying variables that drive exposures can be dynamic and unpredictable. 
Indeed, liquidity risk is often considered to be more difficult to measure 
than other dimensions of financial risk precisely because it is so fluid. 
Although some aspects of asset and funding liquidity risk are readily iden-
tifiable and quantifiable, others are not; this is particularly true when we 
consider joint asset/funding risks and off-balance sheet/contingent trans-
actions. Despite these challenges some attempt must be made to estimate 
the relative magnitude of risk, focusing particularly on the composition 
of corporate liquidity and the cash flows created by the balance sheet 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 171 ---
156 
Liquidity Risk
and contingencies. If this can be done properly, then the next step in the 
process, controlling risk through limit mechanisms and other aspects of 
governance and process, can be successfully accomplished. In common 
with other risk measures, it is generally worthwhile to use a combination 
of accounting information (which despite being historical and “backward 
looking” still serves a purpose in establishing trends) and forecasts, such 
as scenarios or stress tests (which can give a picture of what might happen 
under different future scenarios). 
 Although specific measurement techniques vary by company and 
industry, we can consider several broad approaches, including liquidity 
ratios and cash flow gaps. Liquidity ratios convey a picture of an institu-
tion’s liquidity position by measuring items from the corporate balance 
sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows to determine the 
sufficiency of resources; whilst relatively ease to implement, they must 
be used with caution as they are backward, rather than forward, looking. 
Cash flow gaps, in contrast, focus on known and projected (estimated) 
cash inflows and outflows over various time horizons to determine pos-
sible surpluses or deficits. Known cash flows represented on the balance 
sheet and from operations measure the current “stock” or “inventory” of 
cash, while future cash needs from projections represent the “flow” con-
cept. Both are essential to the measurement process. 
 Companies (especially those from the financial sector) often supple-
ment these metrics with specialized financial asset liquidity measures 
that examine the risks associated with extensive on and off-balance 
sheet financial contracts and risk portfolios. All of these metrics can be 
strengthened through the use of stress testing. In fact, stress testing (with 
a particular focus on liquidation horizons, cash flows, assets disposals, 
secured and unsecured funding, collateral, haircuts, and other key mar-
ket parameters) emerges as perhaps the single most effective way of trying 
to corral the economic effects of liquidity risk. 
 Regardless of the specific tools used, liquidity risks must be measured 
at a granular level (that is, for individual business units, regional groups, 
and/or legal entities) and must be aggregated to the top level of the organ-
ization (e.g., a holding company or other parent company entity); this 
gives an indication of both the disaggregated and aggregated liquidity 
picture, and is especially important when considering the potential for 
trapped liquidity – that is, liquidity residing in a legal entity that cannot 
necessarily be transferred to other legal entities in the group as a result of 
regulatory or legal restrictions. An  ex ante requirement in any financial 
measurement process is a robust accounting backbone that is built on 
clean, granular data. A firm must be able to gather and collate detailed 
data for financial measurement with ease and accuracy; if it cannot do

--- Página 172 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
157
so without significant effort, the measurement task will be of limited use. 
While granular measurement is helpful for all risk analysis, it is especially 
critical for liquidity risk analysis, where institutions may be required to 
measure relevant liquidity positions on an intraday basis. Although the 
measurement process within any large global organization is likely to be 
challenging, it is a worthwhile endeavor because it allows development 
of a multi-dimensional picture of corporate liquidity risk. By measur-
ing liquidity risk from the “bottom up” and the “top down”, a firm can 
uncover pitfalls and opportunities. It might discover areas where cash can 
become trapped or raised in a more cost-effective manner, it might find 
that it is vulnerable to large contingent cash flows if particular events 
occur in remote subsidiaries, and so forth. The multi-faceted picture that 
emerges can be extremely informative. 
 Figure 8.1 summarizes the common liquidity measures we discuss in 
the chapter. 
 Liquidity ratios 
 Dissecting a firm’s financial position is an essential starting point in meas-
uring liquidity risk. By understanding the composition of a firm’s assets, 
liabilities, and off-balance sheet cash flows, we can develop a useful view 
Liquidity ratios
Cash flow gaps
Financial asset
liquidity measures
Stress tests
Granular detail
Consolidated results
General measures
 Figure 8.1  Common liquidity measurement techniques

--- Página 173 ---
158 
Liquidity Risk
of liquidity. 1 In fact, the best approach is holistic: measures that provide 
information on assets, liabilities, and associated contingencies jointly pro-
vide a more accurate picture than a simple examination of each category 
on its own. For instance, a company might have a great deal of short-term 
liabilities coming due that might appear to be a concern, but if they are 
properly matched by an equally large amount of short-term assets, the 
concern is at least partly mitigated. Or, a company might have a portfolio 
of seemingly illiquid assets maturing over the intermediate term, but if its 
liabilities also carry medium-term maturities and contain no optionable 
features, concern is again reduced. The reverse can also occur, so a joint 
examination is useful. 
 Since significant liquidity problems arise from short-term lack of funds, 
metrics that reflect short-term asset and liability positions are an essential 
dimension of the measurement process. The state of a company’s liquid-
ity position can be determined by examining a number of measures 
from the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows. 
While these are generally “point-in-time” estimates of liquidity that soon 
become outdated (they are, of course, historical records), they can still be 
useful: when historical point-in-time information is accumulated, trends 
can be observed to determine whether a firm is becoming more or less liq-
uid over time. In this section we consider a number of essential corporate 
and financial liquidity ratios. 
 Working capital is an essential indicator of corporate liquidity. Gross 
working capital is defined as current assets plus current liabilities. Current 
assets, as noted in Chapter 3, include cash and equivalents, marketable 
securities, receivables, and inventory; current liabilities include short-term 
debt obligations (including CP, notes, and deposits), the current portion 
of long-term debt, and payables. The time horizon for current assets and 
liabilities is often set arbitrarily at one year, and any contracts falling out-
side the one-year horizon are considered non-current. Net working capital 
(or simply working capital) is equal to current assets less current liabilities, 
and it indicates how well current assets cover current liabilities – that is, 
whether the cash flows from maturing current assets are large enough to 
cover outflows associated with maturing liabilities. The net working capi-
tal figure should be positive if a firm is to be considered liquid. 
 The working capital ratio, simply working capital divided by total assets, 
is a common measure that indicates whether a firm is becoming more or 
less liquid as it grows or contracts; a ratio that increases over time suggests 
that working capital remains stable as the balance sheet is shrinking, or 
that working capital increases more rapidly as the balance sheet is grow-
ing. The current ratio, or current assets divided by current liabilities, is 
another popular measure that expresses working capital in ratio form: a

--- Página 174 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
159
ratio above 1.0 indicates that a firm has sufficient current assets on hand 
to meet current liabilities, while a ratio below 1.0 suggests possible pres-
sure, or even problems. A more conservative version of this ratio excludes 
inventories from the current asset computation under the assumption 
that inventories might not be saleable near carrying value, when needed. 
Specifically, the quick ratio (also known as the acid test) divides current 
assets less inventories by current liabilities. A further refinement excludes 
receivables from the computation to yield the cash ratio: this, as the 
name suggests, is simply cash and marketable securities divided by cur-
rent liabilities, and reflects the most liquid asset accounts available to 
meet liabilities coming due. Current, quick, and cash ratios that increase 
over time are a sign of strength; those that decrease continuously may be 
indicative of financial problems. 
 A variation on the theme, the liquid coverage ratio (a type of defen-
sive interval computation), compares a firm’s quick assets to average daily 
operating expenses; this ratio is a balance sheet/income statement hybrid 
intended to estimate “survivability,” or how many days a company can 
continue meeting expenses using only its current resources (with no new 
funding or revenues) – the greater the cover, the stronger the survivability 
horizon. Similarly, a review of the hybrid operating cash flow coverage 
ratio, or cash flow from operations divided by current liabilities, provides 
a measure of how well core operating cash covers obligations coming due; 
the higher the ratio, the stronger the position. 
 Some firms also compute a current liability ratio by comparing cur-
rent liabilities with total liabilities, equity, or total assets; this indicates 
the burden of short-term obligations on various aspects of the broader 
corporate balance sheet – the lower the ratio, the lower the short-term 
liability burden. Since trade credit forms a key source of funding for many 
companies, the behavior of payables can also be considered; the length 
of the average payables maturity, or average accounts payable divided by 
purchases, indicates whether credit extensions are coming due more rap-
idly over time. If maturities are declining, a firm faces more short-term 
funding pressure. 
 Average payables turnover, which measures how quickly or slowly a 
firm is repaying its payables, is determined by dividing purchases by aver-
age annual payables; the slower the turnover ratio, the greater the use of 
trade credit. Receivables can be viewed in a similar light. Since receivables 
are an important means of providing liquidity to others, a firm that finds 
its receivables are lengthening might be suffering from collection prob-
lems; if this is, in fact, the case, its own asset portfolio is likely becom-
ing less liquid, a situation that might demand corrective action. (Note 
that the collection problems might also have a negative impact on the

--- Página 175 ---
160 
Liquidity Risk
value, and thus saleability, of the receivables portfolio.) The length of 
the average receivables maturity, computed as average accounts receiv-
able divided by sales, is thus a key measure. Similarly, average receivables 
turnover, or sales divided by average annual receivables, measures how 
quickly accounts are being replaced and indicates whether customers are 
paying slowly or rapidly; longer turnover periods indicate less liquidity in 
the receivables portfolio. 
 Table 8.1 summarizes key corporate liquidity ratios. 
 Financial institutions use various liquidity ratios that are specifically 
calibrated to their operations. Although the ratios measure similar types 
of risks as those presented above, they are based on slightly different defi-
nitions; we consider some of the most common ratios in this section. 
 Since financial institutions rely heavily on the state of their unsecured 
funding to generate liquidity and credit for their clients, some of the most 
important measures are based on the liability accounts. Certain borrow-
ing ratios – such as total deposits divided by borrowed funds, volatile 
funds divided by liquid assets (where volatile funds are typically cen-
tered on institutional/wholesale, rather than retail, monies), and volatile 
funds minus current assets divided by total assets minus current assets – 
 measure a bank’s need to use volatile borrowings to support business, 
and the degree to which cash and equivalents can be used to repay “hot 
 Table 8.1  Corporate liquidity ratios 
Gross Working Capital = Current Assets + Current Liabilities
Net Working Capital = Current Assets – Current Liabilities
Current Assets = Cash + Marketable Securities + Receivables + Inventories
Current Liabilities =
Short-Term Debt Obligations + Current Portion of Long-Term Debt + Payables
Working Capital Ratio = Net Working Capital/Total Assets
Current Ratio = Current Assets/Current Liabilities
Quick Ratio = (Current Assets – Inventories)/Current Liabilities
Cash Ratio = (Cash + Marketable Securities)/Current Liabilities
Liquid Coverage Ratio =
(Current Assets – Inventories)/Average Daily Operating Expenses
Current Liability Ratio 1 = Current Liabilities/Equity
Current Liability Ratio 2 = Current Liabilities/Total Assets
Current Liability Ratio 3 = Current Liabilities/Total Debt
Average Payables Maturity (days) = (365 * Average Payables)/Purchases
Payables Turnover = Purchases/Average Annual Payables
Average Receivables Maturity (days) = (365 * Average Receivables)/Sales
Receivables Turnover = Sales/Average Annual Receivables
Capital Expenditure Coverage = Operating Cash Flow/Capital Expenditures

--- Página 176 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
161
money” that might be presented for repayment on very short notice. 2 
High ratios indicate a larger amount of deposit turnover or volatile fund-
ing in a bank’s total plan, which can create liquidity pressure. 
 The loan to deposit ratio, or total loans divided by total deposits, indi-
cates the degree to which a bank can support its core lending business 
through deposits; a refinement of this ratio excludes from total deposits 
the more stable (or “sticky”) retail component, to demonstrate the degree 
to which credit business is truly supported by “hot money.” 
 Cash balances are also important as they indicate how well a bank can 
meet “hot money” calls without curtailing credit business. Common bank 
cash liquidity ratios – which are simply variations on corporate working 
capital ratios – include cash divided by total assets and quick assets divided 
by total assets; the higher the ratios, the more liquid the asset portfolio. 
 In addition to these well-established measures, the banking sector is 
now also required, under the post-crisis Basel III framework, to compute 
two additional measures, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net 
Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). The LCR is defined broadly as the stock 
of a bank’s high-quality liquid assets divided by its cash outflows over 
30 days. The NSFR, in turn, is computed as the amount of available sta-
ble funding over one year divided by the total amount of required stable 
funding. We shall discuss both measures in greater detail in the context 
of new regulatory changes in Chapter 11. 
 Within the securities firm sector, measurement of the matched book 
ratio, or repurchase agreements divided by reverse repurchase agree-
ments, indicates the degree to which a firm’s leveraged position is prop-
erly matched and can be reduced or completely unwound. A higher ratio 
reflects a greater liability mismatch and potentially more difficulty in 
unwinding the operation, should that prove necessary. 
 Short-term liquidity in the insurance industry is measured through insur-
ance liquidity ratios, such as marketable securities divided by surrenderable 
liabilities and 30-day saleable assets divided by surrenderable liabilities. 
Surrenderable liabilities are demand liabilities with uncertain time horizons; 
to determine the financial impact of surrender, an insurer may examine a 
portfolio of demand liabilities, multiply each facility by a probability of sur-
render, and sum across individual contracts to obtain an estimate of the 
total. In either case, the higher the ratio, the greater the ability to meet call 
liabilities. Table 8.2 summarizes key financial institution liquidity ratios. 
 The drawback with measuring current corporate or financial institution 
liquidity through pure working capital measures is that the process ignores 
other sources and uses of liquidity, such as reserve borrowing power via unen-
cumbered fixed assets (a possible source for the borrower), a committed but 
undrawn revolver (source for the borrower), an operating lease (source for the 
lessee), a guarantee (use for the guarantor), and so forth. And apart from the

--- Página 177 ---
162 
Liquidity Risk
bucketed gap ratios (discussed in the next section), these measures indicate 
very little about the maturity or duration of obligations, meaning liquidity 
problems might still exist. For instance, a portfolio of liabilities that matures 
in two days is considered current, and a portfolio of assets that comes due in 
30 days is also considered current. However, unless other financing is avail-
able or the current assets can successfully be pledged for immediate cash, a 
liquidity squeeze could appear. Cash flow gap measures, which we consider 
in the section below, seek to overcome such shortcomings. 
 Cash flow gaps 
 Asset–liability gaps are important in the effective management of liquid-
ity risk (and aspects of market risk). A firm might have stable funding 
and/or asset liquidity sources, but it must still manage the gap between 
the two if it is to create a proper liquidity profile. Indeed, firms often 
measure cash flow mismatches because any gap that leads to a funding 
deficit will place immediate demands on the firm’s liquidity program; it 
is important to consider just how severe such deficits can become and 
whether cash cushions should be accumulated in advance. Equally, any 
mismatch that creates a surplus can serve to reinforce the liquidity buffer 
in anticipation of future deficits or emergencies. 
 Cash flow gaps can be measured in basic form through discrete time 
buckets, or through more advanced measures such as duration (i.e., the 
weighted average maturity of cash flows, as described in greater detail in 
 Table 8.2   Financial institution liquidity ratios 
Borrowing Ratio 1 = Total Deposits/Borrowed Funds
Borrowing Ratio 2 = Volatile Funds/(Cash + Marketable Securities)
Borrowing Ratio 3 =
(Volatile Funds – Current Assets)/(Total Assets – Current Assets)
Loan to Deposit Ratio = Total Loans/Total Deposits
Cash Liquidity Ratio 1 = Cash/Total Assets
Cash Liquidity Ratio 2 =
(Cash + Short-Term Investments + Funds Sold)/Total Assets
Cash Liquidity Ratio 3 = Marketable Securities/Surrenderable Liabilities
Cash Liquidity Ratio 4 = 30-day Saleable Assets/Surrenderable Liabilities
Matched Book Ratio =
Repurchase Agreements/Reverse Repurchase Agreements
Actual Gap = Rate-Sensitive Assets – Rate-Sensitive Liabilities
 Gap Ratio = Rate-Sensitive Assets/Rate-Sensitive Liabilities 
 Liquidity Coverage Ratio = High-Quality Liquid Assets/Net Cash Outflows Over 
30 Days 
 Net Stable Funding Ratio = Available Stable Funding Over 1 Year/Required Stable 
Funding

--- Página 178 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
163
Appendix); 3 indeed, simple maturity gaps may be too coarse to effectively 
capture the nuances of cash flows, unless a firm’s operations are particu-
larly straightforward. 
 The starting point in any measurement exercise is gaining a good under-
standing of the company’s cash flows. This begins with an examination 
of the contractual flows from assets and liabilities, and can be supple-
mented by examining the cyclical history of new business and maturing 
business (and the collective effect on balance sheet flows). The analysis 
must also focus on off-balance sheet contingencies (stock) as well as how 
these may change in the future (flow). 
 With this information, it is relatively straightforward to gain an under-
standing of cash flow gaps. Fundamentally, we know that liquidity risk 
(LR) is simply the supply of liquidity (near cash resources) less the net 
funding requirement (NFR, or cash inflow minus cash outflow) for a 
given period of time. If LR is less than 0, then NFR is greater than avail-
able liquidity and some cash access will be required; if LR is greater than 
0, then NFR is less than the available liquidity and some buffer exists. 
This simple calculation can be repeated for every single time period, 
and although distant cash flows can be more difficult to measure with 
certainty, an NFR profile can be developed to illustrate the gap between 
inflows and outflows. For a generic firm, the NFR at each relevant time 
horizon can be computed as shown in Figure 8.2. 
 These can, of course, be decomposed to even more granular levels (for 
example, operating outflows might include interest payments, cost of 
goods sold, and overhead; a five-year fixed payer interest rate swap can be 
Operations +
Maturing assets +
Early asset retirement +
Asset sales +
Assets pledged +
Credit draw-downs +
Off-balance sheet activities
Less
Operations +
Maturing liabilities +
Early liability calls +
Off-balance sheet activities
Cash inflows from:
= Net Funding Requirement
Cash outflows due to:
 Figure 8.2  Computation of the net funding requirement

--- Página 179 ---
164 
Liquidity Risk
decomposed into a short position in a five-year deposit and a long position 
in a floating rate note, and so on). An example is illustrated in Figure 8.3. 
 It is important to stress once again that all cash flows – including those 
arising from off-balance sheet transactions – must be properly included in 
any gap computation; as we have already noted, cash inflows and outflows 
from commitments, derivatives, leases, and so on, are just as important in the 
overall corporate funding picture as those from the visible balance sheet. 4 
 Figure 8.4 reflects a matrix of cash sources and uses against a time hori-
zon based on simple maturity or more precise durations. The end goal is 
to measure the net cash balance requiring funding at any time horizon. 
The granularity of time horizons must be considered carefully. While an 
Operations +
Maturing assets +
Early asset retirement +
Asset sales +
Assets pledged +
Credit draw-downs +
Off-balance sheet activities
Less
Operations +
Maturing liabilities +
Early liability calls +
Off-balance sheet activities
Cash inflows from:
= Net Funding Requirement
Cash outflows due to:
Operating revenues
Interest receivable
Capital gains
Portfolio dividends
Maturing investments,
receivables
Sales of investments,
receivables, inventory, fixed assets
New financing via receivables,
notes, bonds, loans
Derivative gains/benefits
Pension fund requirements
Tax payments
Interest payments
Preferred dividends
Cost of goods sold
Overhead
Mandatory capital expenditures
Maturing CP/ECP, MTNs, loans,
other debt
Early redemptions/putable
liabilities
Sinking fund payments
Mandatory preferred stock
redemptions
Lease obligations
Derivative obligations
 Figure 8.3  Decomposition of the net funding requirement

--- Página 180 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
165
extremely detailed cash flow breakdown – perhaps daily for 30 or 60 days, 
then weekly for several months after that – can provide valuable informa-
tion, it can also generate a certain amount of confusion in interpretation. 
This is particularly true if a firm is operating in a very dynamic environ-
ment, where cash flows arising in two or three weeks might change radi-
cally by the time they move to the immediate sub-one-week bucket. A 
firm needs to gain experience with the optimal level of time granularity 
before it uses such measures in its risk management process. 
 Figure 8.5 illustrates the net funding requirement measurement. 
Cash flow 
source/Use
5
day
2
week
3
week
1
day
2
day
3
day
1
month
3
month
6
month
Assets
–
–
–
Liabilities
–
–
–
OBS
–
–
–
NFR
 Figure 8.4  Cash flow sources/uses by maturity bucket or duration 
$
Net funding requirement
Cash outflows
Cash inflows
Maturity/duration
 Figure 8.5  Net funding requirement

--- Página 181 ---
166 
Liquidity Risk
 Basic bucketing or duration approaches can be refined through statisti-
cal analysis by examining the likelihood of accessing liquidity at different 
points in time (and at different costs) to meet cash flows. Recalling our 
discussion from Chapter 2, we know that cash flow and timing variables 
must be considered, each of which can be certain or uncertain:
 Certain net cash flows at a certain time horizon 
 
●
 Certain net cash flows at an uncertain time horizon 
 
●
 Uncertain net cash flows at a certain time horizon 
 
●
 Uncertain net cash flows at an uncertain time horizon. 
 
●
 To deal with the uncertain variables (NFR and/or time), a firm can use 
statistical probabilities to assess the likelihood that cash will be required 
at a particular horizon (i.e., a net cash flow deficit will arise). For instance, 
dealing with uncertain cash flows at a certain time horizon demands 
the use of a probability distribution reflecting possible cash flows with a 
specific horizon; the same is true for certain cash flows at an uncertain 
time horizon, and so forth. The probability of having sufficient liquid-
ity (which can be viewed as the probability of accessing liquidity times 
the amount of liquidity available) is then given as the probability that a 
particular net cash flow occurs at time horizon  t , multiplied by the prob-
ability that the asset sold or the funding accessed provides the expected 
value, aggregated across all time horizons. 
 We can refine this discussion a bit further in the context of the finan-
cial sector. Banks and securities firms routinely measure the difference 
between their rate sensitive assets (RSAs) and rate sensitive liabilities 
(RSLs) primarily for interest rate risk purposes, but also with an eye on 
liquidity. (Note that these measures typically include the impact of off-
balance sheet cash flows.) There is, of course, a subtle difference between 
rate gaps and liquidity gaps: rate gaps focus on repricing risk by maturity, 
while liquidity gaps focus on cash flow expectations (cash in and cash 
out) by maturity. 5 Sometimes these may be similar, other times they may 
be different, depending on the degree to which contractual, rather than 
behavioral, maturities dominate the balance sheet, or the degree to which 
any behavioral maturities behave in a way that approximates contrac-
tual definitions. 6 Behavioral maturities reflect how a company’s creditors 
act when the contractual due date of a liability arrives: in some cases 
they will extend the liability continuously (or not choose to exercise the 
option to withdraw), while in other cases they will present the liability 
for redemption. The classic banking example is the holder of a demand 
deposit: while the depositor can theoretically present for redemption 
at any time, in practice the deposit will remain  in situ for an extended

--- Página 182 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
167
period of time – particularly if the depositor is a retail or local small busi-
ness customer. 7 Regardless, the rate gap concept is well established and 
applicable as a liquidity proxy in many instances (particularly with some 
modifications as necessary, e.g., placing demand deposits in a maturity 
bucket that reflects their historical “sticky” maturity rather than in the 
overnight bucket). 
 The gap ratio, simply RSA divided by RSL, equals 1.0 for the perfectly 
matched portfolio of assets and liabilities (although a ratio of 1.0 does not 
mean that interest rate risk is eliminated, as the asset and liability rate 
movements might not be well correlated). When a bank’s RSAs are lower 
than its RSLs (a gap ratio of less than 1.0) it has an asset duration that is 
shorter than its liability duration and is said to be running a negative gap 
(i.e., it is liability-sensitive). While this can be profitable as long as the 
yield curve is positive and rates are stable, it is a risky strategy: as inter-
est rates rise, the negative gap means a bank assumes more market-based 
interest rate and liquidity risk, and experiences a compression in its net 
interest margin (interest earned less interest paid). When a bank’s RSAs 
are greater than its RSLs, it has a liability duration that is shorter than its 
asset duration (a gap ratio greater than 1.0) and is said to be running a 
positive gap. These relationships are highlighted in Table 8.3. Banks typi-
cally compute an overall gap ratio to provide a picture of the total liquid-
ity position; they may also supplement this with gap ratios by maturity 
bucket/duration, as discussed in the cash flow section below. The actual 
gap, defined simply as RSA less RSL, can be computed in total and for each 
maturity bucket. Further information on RSAs, RSLs and the gap process 
is included in Appendix. 
 It is important to note that in some jurisdictions, financial institu-
tions are required by regulators to produce specific liquidity measures as 
evidence of their financial strength. These might be duplicates of those 
already produced and used internally, or they might be supplemental. For 
instance, in the UK and United States, banking regulators engage in regu-
lar “CAMEL (S)” reviews (capital, asset quality, management, earnings, 
liquidity, sensitivity to market risk); the liquidity portion of the review 
focuses on the volume and volatility of deposits, overall reliance on inter-
est-sensitive funds, frequency and amount of borrowings, structure of 
liabilities, and access to cash through the asset portfolio. 
 Table 8.3  RSAs, RSLs, and interest rates 
 Rising in terest rates 
 Falling interest rates 
RSA > RSL Positive gap
Earnings increase
Earnings decrease
RSA < RSL Negative gap
Earnings decrease
Earnings increase

--- Página 183 ---
168 
Liquidity Risk
 Financial instrument liquidity measures 
 It is critical for firms that deal actively in financial instruments, including 
marketable securities and derivatives, to measure the amount of liquidity 
inherent in such contracts. Not surprisingly, these measures are of partic-
ular interest to banks, securities firms, funds, and insurers because finan-
cial instruments comprise the bulk of their accounts and create or absorb 
most of their cash. A firm attempting to manage its financial asset liquid-
ity risk needs to develop a strategy where it can sell or pledge a quantity 
of assets with particular liquidity characteristics while minimizing the 
value reduction in all remaining assets. It seeks to maximize the asset 
cash flows it receives, where each asset is governed by a specific price and 
liquidation horizon. To do this two factors must be considered: a forecast 
of changes impacting the market risk component of a portfolio’s risk (that 
is, determining the change in asset value due to market-wide movements, 
with no influence by the firm’s own actions), and a determination of pos-
sible price declines owing to the firm’s own selling actions. 
 An extensive body of research has focused on three different dimen-
sions of financial asset liquidity measurement, including depth, tight-
ness, and resiliency. 8 Depth is the amount of trading volume in a market, 
or the volume of trades that can be accommodated before prices change; 
tightness is the spread between the bid and offer of an asset, or how far 
transaction prices diverge from mid-market prices; and resiliency is the 
speed at which price movements disappear, or the time it takes for a mar-
ket to return to “normal conditions” after having absorbed a large buy 
or sell order. By measuring these three dimensions, a firm with financial 
assets is able to evaluate the magnitude of liquidity risk inherent in its 
investment or trading portfolios. Although there is no consensus on the 
best measures for these indicators, various alternatives exist. 
 Depth can be measured by the amount of orders in an exchange trad-
 
●
ing book or the buys and sells flowing through an OTC-traded product 
line. The greater the amount of orders and volume, the deeper the mar-
ket, and the more likely it is that an institution will be able to liquidate 
its position at, or near, carrying value. It is worth noting that absolute 
market size is not necessarily an indication of depth (for instance the 
Japanese Government Bond market is extremely large, but does not 
feature much depth away from the five- and ten-year benchmark secu-
rities – many non-benchmark issues are extremely illiquid). 
 Tightness can be measured through observable bid–offer spreads: the 
 
●
tighter the spread, the greater the activity, depth, and thus, liquidity. 
 Resiliency is considerably more difficult to gauge, as meaningful data 
 
●
is hard to obtain; in fact, there is no agreement on the most effective

--- Página 184 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
169
measure of resiliency, although some favor speed as a proxy, i.e., the 
time that it takes for the bid–offer spread on a particular asset to return 
to its “normal” level. In general, the more resilient the market, the 
greater its ability to absorb liquidation of a large block of assets. 
 These indicators can be combined to generate a measure referred to as 
friction, or the initial quoted spread (that is, the full bid–offer spread 9 
before a transaction occurs) adjusted for a temporary price impact that 
disappears at a speed reflecting resiliency. This figure is simply the com-
pensation to market makers that are willing to absorb the market and 
liquidity risk embedded in an asset. 10 Of course, there might be a per-
manent price impact due to ongoing divisions in the mid-market quote 
for the asset; this is likely to be attributable to an informational change 
related to the asset rather than any temporary compensation to dealers. 
The price impact of an asset trade can thus be measured by friction. 
 Various other measures of financial asset liquidity exist, including:
 Number of trades in an asset: in general, the greater the absolute 
 
●
number of trades in an asset, the greater the liquidity. This, however, 
is simply a rule of thumb, and allowance must be made for trade size; 
for instance, 100 trades at $100 each might or might not signify greater 
liquidity than 50 trades at $200, although they are likely to suggest 
better liquidity than one trade at $10,000. 
 Monetary volume of trades in an asset: in general, the larger the mon-
 
●
etary volume of trades in an asset, the greater the liquidity. This meas-
ure helps address some of the shortcomings found in a pure tabulation 
of the number of trades, as it takes account of the actual market value 
turnover. 
 Frequency of trades in an asset: in general, the more frequently an 
 
●
asset trades, the better its liquidity. Those that trade several times per 
minute or second are more liquid than those that trade “by appoint-
ment only,” irrespective of monetary volume. 
 Turnover in an asset: in general, an asset that turns over rapidly is more 
 
●
liquid than one that turns over slowly (where turnover is defined as 
average volume divided by outstanding securities). 
 Number of market makers: in general, the greater the number of market 
 
●
makers quoting two-way prices in an asset, the greater the liquidity in 
that asset. This presumes that market makers are obligated to fill either 
side of the trade at the level quoted and cannot renege or back away. 
 Not all of these measures are applicable in every market setting – each 
asset market has unique characteristics and dynamics, so asset liquidity

--- Página 185 ---
170 
Liquidity Risk
measurement must be tailored accordingly. Indeed, some measures are 
more robust than others (depending on the market system and conven-
tions) and might be most useful for “conventional” assets rather than 
those that are highly customized or specialized. 
 Asset liquidity cannot always be computed through bid–offer spread 
movement or turnover statistics. Certain contracts and portfolios 
lack sufficient turnover and/or transparent market prices as a result 
of their structural complexity or unique features, meaning that insti-
tutions must rely on models to estimate value and liquidation prices 
(e.g., so called “marked-to-model” prices). Models possess a systemic 
characteristic that assumes a significant role in liquidity management. 
In the absence of transparency, institutions must measure, price, and 
manage their assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet risks based on 
assumptions related to stochastic processes and price independence. 
While these assumptions might be acceptable during normal market 
conditions, they might not hold true during a dislocation; this was, 
in fact, a significant problem during the financial crisis of 2007–2008. 
Assumptions regarding independent and continuous price movement 
might break down, leading to errors in measurement and management. 
In addition, identical institutional responses (some forced by particular 
regulatory rules) might occur, magnifying the relative volatility and 
liquidity characteristics of the marketplace, again altering underlying 
assumptions. 
 Risk is not a separate stochastic variable underpinning a model; the 
distribution of risk changes in a stress situation as firms implement risk 
protection strategies (e.g., hedging, deleveraging, and so on). Consider, 
for example, that regulators in many countries require banks to use 
value-at-risk (VAR) models, market risk quantification processes that 
attempt to estimate how much an institution’s portfolio of risks might 
lose over a stated time horizon, to a specified degree of statistical con-
fidence. (The process is also applicable to a portfolio of collateral an 
institution might be holding to secure counterparty exposures.) 11 While 
such models are by now widely accepted and form part of the regula-
tory schema for most banks, they contain several fundamental flaws, 
including:
 no gauge of tail risks and losses 
 
●
 no consistent method of aggregating risks across different classes 
 
●
 difficulties capturing the non-linear price characteristics of many 
 
●
derivatives 
 dependence on assumptions related to volatility, correlation, and liquida-
 
●
tion horizon – and reliance (in some methodologies) on historical data 
 separate modelling of asset prices and portfolio size. 
 
●

--- Página 186 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
171
 These flaws draw into question the efficacy of the VAR process, especially 
during systemic dislocations – which is precisely when an institution 
needs a robust gauge of its risks. In fact, the financial crisis of 2007–2008 
revealed all of these weaknesses: the markets exhibited soaring volatil-
ity, breakdown in historical correlations, and disappearance of liquidity – 
all key VAR inputs that were not properly reflected in modelling efforts. 
Interestingly, in a crisis situation, firms managing to the same VAR process 
(for example the 99 percent confidence level, or the ten-day liquidation 
horizon promulgated by the BIS under its 1996 Market Risk Amendment) 
are likely to take similar defensive actions in order to reduce risks. This 
is a manifestation of the positive/negative feedback trading scenarios we 
mentioned earlier – mass migration from high- to low-risk assets can cause 
some asset liquidity to evaporate and liquidation horizons to lengthen. As 
a result,  ex-ante VAR loss estimates might be understated in comparison 
with actual experience (to wit, the model-related problems apparent dur-
ing the LTCM crisis and the 2007–2008 financial crisis). 
 VAR models are not unique in this regard: many other financial mod-
els, including those used to value exotic derivatives and dynamic credit 
risks, may be subject to the same statistical shortcomings, meaning the 
same caveats apply. The use of models has to be properly considered, and 
shortcomings must be understood; one way of achieving this is to ensure 
that model assumptions and limitations are thoroughly discussed by 
management and directors. It is also important to introduce judgment 
and experience into management response, and to not blindly rely on 
model output as the end of the decision-making process. 
 We have mentioned some of the flaws contained in the standard VAR 
computation. Risk management under normal market conditions focuses 
on the distribution of portfolio value changes from moves in mid-market 
prices, disregarding any element of friction. VAR assumes that a bank’s 
entire position or portfolio is unwound (or otherwise neutralized, e.g., 
hedged) in a single trade at a fixed mid-market price at the liquidation 
horizon, regardless of size or complexity. This, not surprisingly, is a rather 
unrealistic assumption. The common approach to VAR liquidation peri-
ods is based on an orderly process that assumes a sale occurs at the end 
of the defined period, and that a single liquidation period holds for all 
assets; this approach ignores liquidity trade-offs and costs. While tradi-
tional models assume static and constant liquidation periods of one day, 
five days, two weeks, and so forth, these often prove unrealistic in times 
of market stress; they are also a “blunt instrument” as they are uniform 
and constant across all market conditions and asset classes. For example, 
the operating assumption is that it will take a bank one day (or five days, 
or two weeks) to sell a $100 million block of securities at the quoted mid-
market price, regardless of whether the securities are US Treasury bonds

--- Página 187 ---
172 
Liquidity Risk
or A-rated subprime mortgage securities, and whether the general market 
environment is benign or hostile. 
 To refine the measure, and make it at least slightly more useful in 
the context of market and liquidity risk management – with due cau-
tion regarding all of the embedded limitations – several VAR adjustments 
have appeared in recent years. One basic approach involves the use of an 
“add-on” to the mid-market price that reflects relative liquidity or illi-
quidity. The add-on can be determined via:
 an empirical adjustment to match a stated liquidation period, taking 
 
●
account of asset class and position size. This technique requires VAR to 
be rescaled to one day, and is intended to provide a “worst case” esti-
mate add-on to the mid-market price of an asset. 
 an estimated adjustment to the current or expected value of the bid–
 
●
offer spread based on the size of the risk position, thus adding to VAR 
the expected costs from the quoted spread. 
 While these adjustments make VAR somewhat more useful, they require 
significant data sourcing and management efforts. In addition, simply 
extending VAR by adjusting the bid–offer spread ignores the market 
impact factors we have discussed above and in Chapter 5, which are an 
important dimension of liquidity risk. 
 Another approach centers on the concept of liquidity-adjusted VAR 
(LAVAR). As the name suggests, this process involves recalibrating the 
VAR computation to take account of liquidity characteristics directly. 
Although there is no single accepted method of computing LAVAR (just 
as there is no single way of calculating VAR), 12 several analytical alterna-
tives exist, including:
 A volatility scaling factor incorporated within the variance/covariance 
 
●
matrix, which applies greater volatility estimates to positions that are 
believed to carry greater liquidity risk (such as those with large size or 
thin trading volume). The scaling factor essentially increases VAR for 
any portfolio with predefined characteristics. 
 A time scaling factor added to the liquidation period. In this instance 
 
●
large positions, as well as those based on fundamentally illiquid assets, 
are “penalized” through a scaling factor that shifts the liquidation 
horizon from one, five, or ten days to relevant multiples – once again 
increasing VAR. In order to scale the liquidation period, an institution 
can divide its risk portfolios into various sub-portfolios that reflect 
specific liquidity characteristics; different time horizons can then be 
assigned according to the expected ease or difficulty of liquidation (or

--- Página 188 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
173
risk neutralization via hedging). In this sense LAVAR can be viewed as 
VAR with an asset-specific sampling horizon and a liquidation period 
that is synchronized to some exogenously determined trading fre-
quency; a link between saleability, depth, and liquidation thus exists. 
 These approaches improve conventional VAR, as they reflect the funda-
mental reality that different assets do, indeed, face different liquidation 
horizons under a range of scenarios. However, they still have shortcom-
ings; for instance, there is no indication of the correct volatility adjust-
ments or time scaling factors, and no explicit accounting for how the 
market price impact function relates to the correlation between an insti-
tution’s activities and systemic supply or demand. That said, some finan-
cial institutions use LAVAR in order to circumvent some of the problems 
and shortcomings that became so apparent during the financial crises of 
the past decade. 
 Stress tests 
 Liquidity problems are often characterized by a low probability of occur-
rence but a potentially large financial impact. A strong regimen of 
endogenous and exogenous stress testing that reveals the potential for 
tail-based losses is thus a critical element of any measurement process. 
As indicated at the beginning of the chapter, stress testing may be the 
single most effective mechanism for trying to understand the potential 
for liquidity-related losses and to reveal areas of weakness  ex-ante rather 
than  ex-post . Stress testing of this type is absolutely essential for banks 
and insurers: by definition and practice, we know that these intermedi-
aries tend to hold a lower amount of liquid assets during normal times 
in order to maximize revenues – meaning they may have insufficient 
liquid assets during the onset of a stressed period. But such testing is also 
applicable to non-financial corporations, particularly those with com-
plex structures, offshore subsidiaries, multi-currency operations, and so 
forth. 
 Stress testing can be accomplished by creating multivariate scenarios 
reflecting extreme movement in each relevant parameter. 13 Care must 
be taken not to underestimate the “fat tails” that characterize liquidity 
events. 14 The “fat tails” essentially indicate that in an historically derived 
statistical distribution tail events have a greater probability of occurrence 
than is commonly understood; failure to recognize this fact will lead to 
an underestimate of potential risk effects. In fact, there is ample evidence 
from the 2007–2008 crisis to suggest that many institutions failed to 
properly consider such effects in their own testing, and therefore missed

--- Página 189 ---
174 
Liquidity Risk
events that occurred with greater magnitude than expected. Since most 
historical data sets lack the information to reveal such extreme points, 
simulations may be the most appropriate way of capturing the “fat tail” 
impact. 
 Alternatively, stress tests can be developed by “replaying” certain disas-
ter events that have occurred in the past (such as the 1987 stock market 
crash, the 1998 Russia/hedge fund crisis, the 2001 technology-media-tel-
ecom meltdown, or the 2007–2008 financial crisis) and examining the 
effects on internal financial structure and liquidity patterns. When using 
past disasters as a guide, it is important to remember that each one was 
driven by different dynamics and risk factors – such differences must be 
explicitly understood and considered. Stress scenarios can also be created 
by manipulating macro-economic variables through an entire cycle, i.e., 
economic slowdown, loss of consumer confidence, rise in inflation, slow-
down in earnings, and general deterioration in corporate credits (reflected 
through downgrades; this may lead to increased non-performing assets in 
the banking sector, depositor nervousness and eventual withdrawals, and 
so forth). Each link in the cycle yields a certain impact on a firm’s liquid-
ity. Event risk scenarios and joint scenarios can provide perspectives on 
even more severe tail events. 
 Regardless of approach (e.g., customized historical/simulation or repeat 
of history), stress tests need to be designed carefully. Importantly, liquid-
ity stresses tend to reflect a structural change in a market environment, 
rather than a simple scaling or magnitude change in one or market vari-
ables. In fact, the exercise should not be viewed strictly as a probabilistic 
analysis (i.e., what is the probability that a liquidity event will occur) but 
as a deterministic one (i.e., a liquidity event of some duration and inten-
sity will occur, with certain resulting effects). Stress tests should be driven 
by conservative and consistent assumptions about the interrelationships/
correlations between risk factors and the potential for “toppling of the 
dominoes” in ways that may not have been thought possible. 15 This 
should be obvious: it is vital for the relationships to be internally consist-
ent because a liquidity event will be driven by, and create, other market 
effects. 
 Ideally, testing should be measured over short-, medium-, and long-
term horizons several times per year, and the results should be linked 
into daily management processes and the contingency plans we consider 
later in the book. In order to properly benchmark the results, a company 
should first run a series of tests under its normal operating baseline case 
to determine how its positions perform in the absence of endogenous 
or exogenous stresses; this provides a gauge of just how sensitive a firm 
becomes in the face of specific disruptions or what pockets of weakness

--- Página 190 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
175
actually exist. It can then apply scenarios to stress market parameters, 
cash flows, asset disposals/pledging, funding, covenants, collateral, cur-
rency exposures, and so on – any stock or flow variable that can impact 
a firm’s liquidity position and access, over a range of time periods (e.g., 
two weeks to one year). A range of stresses should be applied to capture a 
spectrum of market situations, e.g., a mild stress (high probability), a seri-
ous stress (lower probability) and an extreme stress (lowest probability) – 
each with its own defined market parameters and link to contingency 
planning. In practice, the stress testing process relies on a variety of tools, 
including simulation analysis, mathematical programming, and forecast-
ing models, to produce desired results. 
 Stress testing framework 
 The process of creating a stress test is, of course, institution-dependent. 
Individual firms may favor one framework or process over another and, 
in the main, regulatory authorities (i.e., in the financial sector) do not 
prescribe specific approaches for the creation of stress tests (though they 
may mandate specific time horizon or variable manipulation). The sam-
ple multi-step framework presented immediately below can thus be con-
sidered generic in nature. 
 Step 1: Define the stress testing scenario, i.e., what will happen with each 
critical risk variable during the liquidity event. This can include market 
variables (interest rates 16 , credit/funding spreads, currencies, volatilities, 
correlations) as well as other variables (asset liquidation horizons, fund-
ing withdrawals, actions of counterparties and rating agencies, phase of 
the economic cycle, and so forth (see the section below for further dis-
cussion on some of these inputs)). As noted above, several events can be 
created, from mild to extreme, and from idiosyncratic to market-wide. 
Regardless of the specific stress, the movement of variables must be 
internally and externally consistent, i.e., linkages between credit, mar-
ket and liquidity risk must feature in the model. While it is easy enough 
to design mild stress tests and use them in daily management (under the 
assumption that they may indeed come to pass), it is far more difficult 
to do the same with serious or extreme stresses. It appears that some 
(and perhaps many) institutions are reluctant to create “impossible” 
scenarios and use them to guide their actions, since the results tend to 
appear so extreme. But failing to do so means they may be unprepared 
for the next real crisis. It is far better to design and implement a severe 
stress (regardless of the output) so that the results can be considered 
and protective steps can be taken – or, at a minimum, so that the con-
tingency plan can be properly tailored. Severe stresses should include

--- Página 191 ---
176 
Liquidity Risk
systemic shocks that impact asset liquidity, funding and collateral for 
an extended period of time. 
 Step 2: Determine the cash flows affecting the institution during a set 
horizon, which can span two weeks to a year or more; obviously, as the 
duration of the liquidity event grows longer, the precision of future cash 
flow estimates diminishes. The cash in/out analysis should include all on- 
and off-balance sheet flows, including those with contractual maturities 
and those with behavioral maturities (assumptions must be made as part 
of step 1 in defining what occurs with behavioral flows). It is important 
to remember as part of this step that good approximations are sufficient 
for the exercise; to quote a wise old (risk management) saying, “it is bet-
ter to be approximately right than precisely wrong” (a fact that VAR and 
other models proved during the crisis). 
 Step 3: Compute the net cash position by combining the cash in and 
cash out in Step 2 per time bucket. Each bottom line figure represents 
the liquidity required for that time period under that particular stress 
event. It is quite reasonable to assume that the more severe the stress test 
assumptions, the more severe the cash flow impact, the greater the liquid-
ity requirement at any given point in time. 
 Step 4: Determine the total amount of cash that can be obtained from 
the liquidity portfolio to cover any deficit in the net cash position in Step 
3. If this proves insufficient, identify other sources of borrowing that can 
be accessed, either on an unsecured basis (which may be possible only in 
mild stress events) or on a secured basis (the most likely case for increas-
ingly severe stress events). 
 Step 5: Compute the defensive interval for the institution under each 
specific stress event, i.e., the number of days the institution can survive 
without accessing additional cash or otherwise changing its operations. 
 Step 6: Analyze the results and incorporate any points of concern or weak-
ness into tactical and strategic plans and in contingency funding plans. 
 To be truly accurate, the stress tests should be conducted by relevant 
currency, which is especially important for any multinational operation 
which regularly funds and operates in multiple currencies. The stress test 
should also be parameterized to take account of any legal entity upstream/
downstream/sidestream restrictions. Figure 8.6 summarizes the generic 
stress test framework. 
 Market parameters 
 Stress tests can be used to examine market liquidity parameters that 
are often troublesome, including variables that VAR-type models ignore

--- Página 192 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
177
(that is, how much might be lost via market, credit, and liquidity 
risks in a disaster, rather than the minimum amount lost on a “losing 
day” 17 ). Key variables that should form part of any stress measurement 
include:
 liquidation horizon 
 
●
 cash flows 
 
●
 asset disposals, secured funding and haircuts 
 
●
 unsecured funding 
 
●
Step 1: Define the stress test scenarios 
(mild, serious, extreme)
Step 2: Determine cash in/out per stressed 
market parameter
Step 3: Compute net cash position per 
time bucket
Step 6: Analyze results and adjust tactical, 
strategic, contingency plans
Step 4: Determine cash obtainable through 
liquidity portfolio/borrowings
Step 5: Compute defensive interval
 Figure 8.6  Generic stress test framework

--- Página 193 ---
178 
Liquidity Risk
 covenants and terminations 
 
●
 collateral 
 
●
 currencies 
 
●
 joint event risks. 
 
●
 Liquidation horizon 
 Liquidation horizon, as we have noted above, is an essential input into 
many models and is a frequent source of problems – primarily because 
there is a tendency to underestimate, during times of market dislocation, 
the length of time that it will take to sell (or otherwise neutralize) a posi-
tion (this was certainly evident during the last financial crisis, where 
many institutions severely underestimated liquidation horizons across 
many asset classes). Stress tests must abandon “common thinking” and 
extend liquidation horizons to include those that appear almost incon-
ceivable. Assets that are liquid under normal market conditions become 
less liquid as the severity of the dislocation intensifies; increasingly 
severe scenarios drain more asset liquidity from the market, until the 
point where an asset that might have been saleable at the mark price in 
one day may now only be saleable in 20 or 30 days – even at a discount. 
This can lead a firm to consider responses that it might otherwise disre-
gard. For instance, if a company knows with certainty that it will have 
to make a large payment in three weeks and is seeking to fund the pay-
ment through asset sales, it might identify a portfolio of corporate bonds 
that it believes will take no more than one week to sell. If, however, it 
cannot sell them in time, it will face a liquidity squeeze and be forced to 
seek other, more expensive, alternatives. The firm should question the 
liquidation assumption by considering that it will take one month to sell 
the bonds, and run stress scenarios on that basis. It may discover that it 
will have to begin selling the bonds earlier than anticipated or plan for 
some other contingency funding if it wants to meet the cash payments 
on time. 
 Cash flows 
 Stress testing must be applied to cash inflows/outflows and the resulting 
NFR referenced earlier in the chapter. By manipulating operating cash 
flows, and sources and uses of liquidity, across time horizons, different 
scenarios can be computed, some of which may reveal areas of vulner-
ability. The results can be incorporated into broader management and 
contingency plans. For instance, the regimen can be based on measuring 
cash inflows from operating revenues, credit draw-downs, asset sales, asset 
roll-offs, and contingent off-balance sheet receipts, and cash outflows

--- Página 194 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
179
related to liability redemptions, putability, roll-off, and contingencies. A 
focus on intraday cash spikes can also be examined, as these can be the 
source of significant financial pressures when in deficit. Conservatism is, 
of course, important. Inflows shouldn’t be counted if there is any possi-
bility that they will not arise or occur – for whatever reason. For example, 
if a bank assumes that it will renew a maturing loan, it cannot count that 
temporary cash inflow as liquidity gained. Similarly, cash expected to 
be raised from its securitization activities should not be counted, as it is 
likely that in a stressed environment the securitization market will close 
down. Equally, not all cash outflows can be halted, or else business will 
cease to exist. A bank cannot stop making new loans (cash out), just as 
an industrial company cannot stop making new products (cash out). To 
assume that all cash outflows can be minimized is neither realistic nor 
conservative. 
 The cash flow element of stress testing can also be used to measure a 
firm’s ability to survive without accessing new sources of cash; we have 
already mentioned that the defensive interval (or survival horizon) is an 
important gauge of a firm’s ability to continue operating for a defined 
period of time with no new cash inflows. Stressing the amount of cash 
outflows by injecting additional unexpected payments or withdrawing 
existing funding lines can help demonstrate the strength or fragility of a 
company’s defensive interval. A test based on maximum cumulative out-
flow, or the maximum amount of short-term unsecured funding needed 
to finance outflows in the event of a disaster scenario, can also provide 
important insight into the liquidity position. 
 Cash flow stress testing of off-balance sheet activities is particularly 
important for financial institutions. A bank or securities firm must be 
aware of what might happen to the corporate balance sheet if derivatives 
are exercised, revolving credit facilities are drawn, margins are required, 
guarantees are called on, or a structured vehicle has to be funded back 
on the balance sheet; the cash flow effects arising from the optional-
ity embedded in callable or putable securities must also be taken into 
account. Scenario analysis must measure the impact of such contingen-
cies. While there is no fool proof way of conducting such tests, a firm 
can begin by examining historical activity in the face of dislocation and 
then supplement this with judgment and hypothetical behaviorsgiven 
particular market events. 
 Asset disposals, secured funding, and haircuts 
 Stress testing can measure the sensitivity of a firm’s asset accounts gen-
erally, its liquidity warehouse specifically, and the values that can be

--- Página 195 ---
180 
Liquidity Risk
realized in the event of market dislocation. While the conservative firm 
is already likely to discount by a certain percentage the amount that it 
believes it can obtain through outright disposal or secured funding/
pledging under normal market conditions, the stress test must focus on 
more severe haircuts (discounts), such as the new carrying value of the 
portfolio that results if all markets decline by 5 percent, 10 percent, or 
25 percent, or become offered-only as a result of exogenous events. Asset 
portfolios that are concentrated or have limited marketability (as a result 
of riskiness or complexity, such as structured credit securities) should be 
discounted even more heavily in the test to reflect the fact that realiz-
able cash value (whether through sales or pledges) will almost certainly 
be far smaller than expected during difficult times. Experience particu-
larly from the last crisis suggests that in a stressed market environment 
lenders (and central banks) will demand larger haircuts on any collat-
eral they accept in support of funding. Accordingly, mild to extreme 
stress tests should reflect haircuts on securities and other unencumbered 
assets that reflect these higher requirements; these can be calibrated for 
the type of security being posted as collateral (e.g., government bonds 
versus corporate bonds versus structured credit assets). For instance, if a 
firm, operating in normal market conditions, can obtain financing on a 
AAA-rated government bond based on a 1 percent haircut, it may raise 
the requirement to 3 percent (mild), 5 percent (serious) and 10 percent 
(extreme). Or, if it has a AAA-rated corporate bond that is normally 
pledged based on a 5 percent haircut, it may increase the requirement 
to 10 percent (mild), 20 percent (serious) and 40 percent (extreme) to 
more accurately reflect stress market realities. Naturally, the greater the 
discount a firm faces in such stress scenarios, the less funding capacity 
it has embedded in its balance sheet. 18 Haircuts can be measured in vari-
ous ways, but are typically based on asset quality and type, with a spe-
cific focus on the price volatility of the asset, the liquidation horizon, 
and the degree to which the asset can be rehypothecated. It is generally 
true that more volatile assets carry larger haircuts. Price volatility, in 
turn, might be directly or indirectly influenced by the depth, tight-
ness, and resiliency of the market. Those that are deeper, tighter, and 
more resilient can absorb a greater amount of activity without much 
visible change in the quoted mid-market price; accordingly, they exhibit 
less volatility. Those that are shallower lack the same absorption capac-
ity, and are more likely to demonstrate greater price volatility, and thus 
larger haircuts. 
 Any computation must also take account of the liquidation horizon. 
Again, it is generally true that the longer the time available for liquida-
tion, the smaller the haircut (though the greater the likelihood of larger 
price movements between measurement date and liquidation date). A

--- Página 196 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
181
firm that has a portfolio of assets that can be liquidated/pledged over 
30 days will not necessarily face the same value discount as the firm that 
must dispose of, or pledge, the assets within 24 hours. Although the con-
servative approach might assume instantaneous disposal/pledge value, 
more realistic time horizons should be computed. 
 The ability to rehypothecate securities taken as collateral in a financ-
ing transaction can also influence the level of the haircut: those that 
can easily be accepted and then re-pledged in the market are likely to 
carry smaller haircuts than those that cannot, as they create greater flex-
ibility and liquidity within the asset portfolio. High-quality government 
securities are routinely rehypothecated – this feature (along with other 
liquidity characteristics like high volume and low volatility) helps gener-
ate smaller haircuts. 
 An illustrative range of financial asset haircuts, shown under normal 
market circumstances, is reflected in Table 8.4a. Stressed market condi-
tions will necessarily generate larger haircuts as a result of greater price 
volatility and longer liquidation time horizons. Accordingly, the stress 
test exercise must centre on use of conservative discounts. Once again, 
an institution can set different haircut levels for each of the mild, seri-
ous, and extreme stress scenarios. The most extreme discounts, shown 
 Table 8.4a  Illustrative financial asset haircuts, normal market conditions 
 Asset class 
 Haircut ranges (%) 
Short-term government securities
<1
High-quality money market securities
 1–5
Generic agency and mortgage-backed securities
10–20
High-quality corporate bonds
10–20
High-yield corporate bonds
25–50
Emerging market bonds
30–50+
 Structured credit bonds 
 Large capitalization equities 
 30–50+ 
 30–50+ 
 Table 8.4b  Illustrative financial asset haircuts, extreme stress market conditions 
 Asset class 
 Haircut ranges (%) 
Short-term government securities
 2–5
High-quality money market securities
 5–10
Generic agency and mortgage-backed securities
20–35
High-quality corporate bonds
20–35
High-yield corporate bonds
50–75+
 Structured credit bonds 
 Emerging market bonds 
 50–75+ 
 50–75+ 
Large capitalization equities
50–75+

--- Página 197 ---
182 
Liquidity Risk
for illustrative purposes in Table 8.4b, reveal the reduced flexibility a 
firm faces when liquidating or pledging financial assets. It is also worth 
noting that although each institution with a financial portfolio 19 may 
perform its own normal and stressed haircut computations, regulators 
sometimes impose minimum haircut levels of their own; this tends to 
happen when central banks, for example, assume the role of liquidity 
provider during times of market stress. While these may be determined 
in a similar way (for instance by volatility or time), there is no guaran-
tee that they will match the figures generated by market participants – 
indeed, there is every reason to believe that the regulators will be even 
more conservative. 
 Unsecured funding 
 Unsecured funding sources must be a central focus of stress testing. 
Indeed, a sharp rise in funding costs or the disappearance of existing 
facilities is often the first sign of a stress liquidity problem, and can lead 
to more serious problems. In addition to outright increases in fund-
ing spreads, the behavior of customers, clients, investors, depositors, or 
other creditors that provide funds should be considered in the testing. 
This moves from the endogenous to exogenous, and is intended to con-
vey what might occur if depositors suddenly withdraw a large portion 
of funds, investors refuse to rollover CP/ECP in order to reallocate their 
funds to other opportunities, trade creditors encounter difficulties of 
their own and change the payable credit terms they offer their clients, 
and so forth. This dimension is important because it attempts to capture 
an idea we discussed earlier: a firm can manage its own operations very 
prudently but still remain susceptible to external forces. History suggests 
that some/all of a firm’s unsecured financing will disappear in the face 
of a market dislocation and that some portion of its committed facilities 
may be withdrawn through invocation of MAC clauses or downgrade 
triggers, so these facts must be incorporated in the stress test. 
 A mild to serious stress test might focus on the economic loss sus-
tained if all funding costs rise by 100, 200, or 500 bps on committed 
facilities, along with the cash flow effects arising from a withdrawal 
of all uncommitted facilities. A more extreme stress might include the 
cash flow effects and incremental funding requirements arising from 
the instantaneous withdrawal of all of a firm’s short-term unsecured 
funding (e.g., CP, ECP, short-term notes) and its uncommitted banking 
facilities, along with a certain percentage (e.g., 5%, 10%, 20%) of its 
committed facilities (cancelled, for example, because of MACs or ratings 
downgrades).

--- Página 198 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
183
 Financial institutions in particular should incorporate into their stress 
tests some modelling of depositor behavior. We have noted earlier that 
certain classes of demand deposits, which can theoretically be withdrawn 
at will, possess a certain “stickiness” which causes them to remain  in situ , 
particularly when the market environment is benign. Contractual and 
behavioral maturities on such liabilities are thus quite different. As the 
market environment begins to worsen and/or as idiosyncratic events 
impact a bank, that behavior may begin to change: previously sticky 
deposits may start to flow out. The stress test should make assumptions 
about the stickiness in mild, serious and extreme scenarios, perhaps dis-
tinguishing between those that are historically most sticky (e.g., insured 
retail, uninsured retail and local small business deposits) and those that 
are least sticky (e.g., wholesale deposits from funds, insurers, other banks, 
broker dealers, and other non-local customers). Each group can be sub-
jected to separate stress assumptions, though all might be subject to some 
increased rate of withdrawal (e.g., under a serious scenario normally 
sticky deposits might run off at 7% instead of 1%, while wholesale depos-
its might run off at 30% instead of 10%). 
 In some instances, of course, very strong companies can benefit from a 
flight-to-quality movement if their credit standing is sufficiently strong to 
attract the funds of nervous investors or depositors. As noted, in a systemic 
dislocation some institutions gain additional liquidity, giving them con-
siderably more financial flexibility. This phenomenon, while limited to a 
relatively small number of AAA- and AA-rated financial institutions, must 
be recognized as a possibility, and can be included in relevant tests. 
 Covenants and terminations 
 We have indicated that many bank credit agreements and bond inden-
tures contain financial covenants and market events that are designed 
to ensure debtor firms remain prudently managed. These are generally 
well intended and designed to protect both parties, and their stakehold-
ers, from mismanagement. Since the triggering of covenants can create a 
“chain reaction” of funding events (such as cancellation or repayment of 
facilities), a thorough understanding of what might occur is an important 
part of stress measurement. 
 The funding scenarios can be stress tested by considering a firm’s obli-
gations under its financing facilities should covenants be breached or the 
firm’s credit rating be downgraded to a threshold that leads to step-up 
funding costs, posting of collateral, and/or repayment of outstanding 
facilities. In some instances this might reveal the need for significant 
amounts of new funding or a redirection of cash flows from alternative

--- Página 199 ---
184 
Liquidity Risk
sources. Similarly, a firm can examine its portfolio by taking account of 
early terminations embedded in financial contracts, allowing one or the 
other of the parties to end a transaction. In some instances early termi-
nation is possible at will; in other cases it must be triggered by a specific 
event, such as counterparty default or a rate movement. In either case, a 
firm should understand the positive and negative cash flow implications 
of early terminations. 
 Collateral 
 There are situations when firms accept or deliver collateral in order to 
secure credit-sensitive transactions. Since the collateral forms an impor-
tant element of the credit risk management process, and since credit risk 
can have an impact on liquidity risk, the collateral portfolio should be 
subject to stress tests. In fact, several aspects need to be explored: receipt 
versus delivery of collateral, delays in receipt, and discounts in collateral 
value. In the first instance, a company might wish to create stress sce-
narios that involve the delivery of collateral to other institutions, either as 
part of the normal course of business or as a result of a credit downgrade 
that requires it to post security. The implications of having to source or 
reallocate assets to secure a credit exposure must be examined in detail, 
as the action will have a direct impact on the firm’s liquidity and finan-
cial flexibility. 
 Next, a firm must consider collateral that it is expecting to receive 
from another party through the same types of agreements. Receipt of 
collateral, which can then be rehypothecated, is an important source of 
cash, but only to the extent that a firm can manage the collateral process 
and as long as it is viewed strictly as a temporary infusion. Note that if 
a firm’s stress test assumptions call for a permanent or semi-permanent 
withdrawal from certain activities that require continuous posting of 
collateral, then the model should properly credit the collateral to the 
liquidity buffer – meaning it is available for further disposal or rehy-
pothecation without constraint. Of course, issues related to the timing 
of collateral delivery should be analyzed, including instances where col-
lateral that is meant to be received is delayed and the firm is forced to 
take actions to cover the credit exposure. Finally, the value of the col-
lateral should be stressed by applying the very asset haircuts we have 
described in the section above. If the firm’s counterparty defaults and 
the stress value of the collateral proves insufficient, a cash shortfall may 
arise. The deficit might have to be funded through alternate sources, and 
must therefore be incorporated into a contingency plan. A stress meas-
urement of these collateral arrangements is most important for firms 
that have a great deal of assets flowing into, or out of, the balance sheet

--- Página 200 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
185
as part of corporate operations. While this is generally associated with 
financial institutions, certain large companies have similar collateralized 
business as well. 
 Currency exposures 
 Institutions with global operations holding a certain portion of cash 
flows and balance sheet accounts in a foreign currency must measure 
the economic effects arising from a depreciation/devaluation of the local 
currency, as well as those arising from a lack of local currency access. 
For instance, a stress scenario might examine the cash flow impact of 
a currency devaluation of 10, 25, or 50 percent, or a large spike in local 
interbank rates that might occur in defence of a currency (and which 
would impact a firm’s local currency borrowing costs). In addition, sce-
narios might be constructed to consider the financial impact owing to an 
inability to source or convert local currency (perhaps as a result of capital 
controls, an event risk we consider immediately following). 
 Event risks and joint scenarios 
 In some instances a firm is exposed to event risks that can alter access to 
cash or the way in which business is conducted. These might be consid-
ered structural changes – highly improbable legal, political, or sovereign 
events that can dramatically change the firm’s liquidity profile. Although 
such exogenous structural changes have a low probability of occurrence, 
they are worth considering in the context of a stress liquidity measure-
ment exercise. 
 Candidates for event-related stress testing include currency convertibil-
ity controls placed on an important local marketplace, freezing or seizure 
of capital within a country, destruction of an uninsured plant, regulatory 
changes prohibiting a legal entity from upstreaming cash to the parent, 
and imposition of double leverage constraints at the holding company 
level. Each one of these events can sharply curtail a firm’s access to cash 
and place increased demands on existing facilities. 
 The regulatory and rating agency view of institutional liquidity 
should be a central focus of any event risk testing. These bodies com-
mand considerable influence in determining appropriate levels of sec-
tor liquidity, and it is prudent to hypothesize on their behavior during 
a market dislocation. For instance, if regulators are concerned about a 
systemic financial crisis, they might require financial institutions to 
increase their level of liquidity to particular minimum thresholds (we 
consider this point further in Chapter 11). Or, if rating agencies are 
worried about growing leverage and declining revenues in a particular 
industrial sector, they might penalize, via a lower credit rating, firms

--- Página 201 ---
186 
Liquidity Risk
that fail to preserve a larger than normal cash buffer. As we noted in 
Chapter 6, a regulatory sanction or credit downgrade can exacerbate a 
liquidity crisis and help fuel a spiral. Anticipating such institutional 
changes through stress testing is an important element of anticipatory 
risk management. 
 The stress scenarios we have noted above can also be considered in 
combination. In fact, this is a realistic approach when considering disas-
ters, as shocks can often impact assets, funding, and contingencies simul-
taneously. For instance, it can be useful to consider what might occur to 
the firm’s cash position if the value of its investment portfolio or liquidity 
warehouse falls by a particular percentage at the same time as the cost 
of its committed funding sources rises by several percent, uncommitted 
funding is completely withdrawn, and currency controls are imposed 
on its primary offshore market. Naturally, results obtained from such 
joint scenario analysis must be considered carefully; although the results 
might reflect rather significant financial losses and large cash outflows, it 
is important to recognize that these are very low probability events, and 
daily management to such unlikely events will not result in an optimal 
use of resources. 
 Table 8.5 provides a simplified view of the stress testing process. The 
output from each one of these variables and scenarios might be a change 
in a market parameter leading to a change in the way cash flows are 
computed, and/or an actual change in the timing or magnitude of the 
cash flows – each of which can affect the firm’s need to access additional 
funding. 
 The measurement process is a central component of any liquidity risk 
management framework. Before an institution can actively manage its 
liquidity risk exposure, it must understand how large such exposures are, 
and how significant they might become under normal and stressed mar-
ket conditions. With this information in hand, an institution’s executives 
and directors can control liquidity risk in a manner that is consistent 
with internal guidelines and overall risk tolerance levels, topics which we 
consider in the next chapter.

--- Página 202 ---
Measuring Liquidity Risk 
187
 Table 8.5  Summary stress testing grid 
 Variable 
 Baseline 
 Stress 1 
Market 
crash 
 Stress 2 
Economic 
slowdown 
 Stress 3 
Sovereign 
event risk 
 Stress 4 
Joint 
scenarios 
 Market parameters 
Volatility
Correlations
Liquidation horizon
Spreads
Haircuts
LAVAR
 Cash flows 
Assets
Liabilities
OBS Items
NFR
 Asset disposals 
Portfolio 1
Portfolio 2
Portfolio 3
Receivables
Inventories
PP&E
 Funding 
CP/ECP
Payables
MTN/EMTN
Loans
Putable 
arrangements
Bonds
 Covenants 
Liquidity ratio
Leverage ratio
MAC
 Collateral 
Received
Delivered
 Currency 
Currency 1
Currency 2
Currency 3

--- Página 203 ---
188
 9 
 Controlling Liquidity Risk 
 We know from our discussion in previous chapters that active manage-
ment of liquidity risk is central to a company’s success. A well-struc-
tured approach to managing risks that have been identified, measured, 
and stress-tested helps a company avoid the cash flow surprises that can 
lead to problems. Liquidity risks can be managed through a multi-stage 
process that is based on developing proper governance practices, defin-
ing and implementing a liquidity risk mandate, assigning management 
duties and responsibilities, creating and implementing liquidity risk 
controls, and monitoring the liquidity risk profile. We consider each of 
these essential points, summarized in Figure 9.1, in greater detail in this 
chapter. 
 Governance Structure 
 In order to control liquidity risks, a firm must start by creating an effec-
tive risk governance structure. The board of directors, acting as agent of 
the shareholders, must delegate authority for liquidity risk management 
to the executive team (that is, CEO, COO, CFO, and/or treasurer) and 
authorize the creation of an independent committee or department (or 
unit within an existing department) to oversee the implementation of a 
liquidity risk management process. We term this function the liquidity 
committee (LC) for ease, though it is commonly known as an asset–liabil-
ity committee (ALCO) in some financial institutions. The LC, in its capac-
ity as the operating arm of the board on all matters relating to liquidity, 
should include senior representatives from relevant disciplines, includ-
ing business units, finance, treasury, and risk management. If a separate 
treasury function already exists to manage daily balance sheet funding 
and short-term liquidity risks, as is common in many enterprises, close 
cooperation must be fostered between the two groups. The duties of the 
executive team and the LC must be very clearly defined, and the audit 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 204 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
189
committee of the board should ensure that internal and external auditors 
regularly review the efficacy of the functions. 
 The LC, as a process and policy-making unit, should be responsible for:
 defining, in conjunction with the board of directors and senior execu-
 
●
tives, the firm’s liquidity risk mandate, and communicating elements 
of the mandate to all interested stakeholders 
 developing a business and liquidity risk strategy that is consistent with 
 
●
the company’s stated liquidity risk mandate 
 creating an internal funds transfer pricing mechanism that explicitly 
 
●
charges a business or operating unit for the use of liquidity so that 
the true cost of bearing liquidity risk is factored in (as with financing, 
hedging and equity charges) 
 creating a liquidity crisis management program 
 
●
 ensuring appropriate risk measures are developed and promulgated 
 
●
 evaluating the liquidity impact of new products and business lines to deter-
 
●
mine how they can be supported within the firm’s control framework 
 delegating duties and authorities related to the management of liquid-
 
●
ity risk to the business units and control functions (depending on the 
degree of decentralization that is sought) 
 reviewing for the board and senior executives the status of liquid-
 
●
ity risks and recommending periodic adjustments to the mandate to 
accommodate changing corporate or market circumstances. 
 Senior executives, as part of the management group, should be responsible 
for:
 ensuring prudent daily management of the firm’s liquidity process, 
 
●
including short- and long-term funding, asset structure, and bank/ 
investor relationships 
Developing a
proper
governance 
structure
Defining and
implementing
liquidity risk
mandate
Assigning
management
duties and 
responsibilities
Creating and
implementing
liquidity risk
controls
Monitoring the
liquidity risk
profile
 Figure 9.1  Controlling liquidity risks

--- Página 205 ---
190 
Liquidity Risk
 allocating and directing resources in support of a sound liquidity 
 
●
 environment 
 managing closely the daily (and intraday) cash positions 
 
●
 making certain that the operational activities of the institution are 
 
●
being managed securely, accurately, and efficiently, including effec-
tive management of cash payments and receipts, collateral posting and 
acceptance, error control, cash reconciliations, and so forth 
 ensuring that new products, strategies, and business lines with liquid-
 
●
ity risk implications are submitted to the LC for consideration 
 making sure that all relevant cash flow projections and stress tests are 
 
●
conducted by the risk management team on a regular basis (by legal 
entity and consolidated group), and that the results are discussed and 
properly incorporated in contingency planning 
 testing the liquidity crisis management program and invoking and 
 
●
directing it when needed (in conjunction with others on the crisis 
management team). 
 The board, senior executives, and the LC must consider whether liquid-
ity risks should be managed on a centralized or decentralized basis. Each 
approach has advantages and disadvantages. Decentralization permits 
local units to manage liquidity according to local market practices and 
conditions, and in a manner consistent with legal entity or regulatory 
restrictions, but gives the head office less direct control. Centralization 
allows for strong headquarters control and a consolidated and consistent 
view of exposures, but might not promote proper awareness of unique 
local market issues. In some firms a balanced approach can prove opti-
mal: regional or product units can be granted responsibility for daily 
liquidity management but must adhere to certain centralized directives 
developed by the LC, central treasury, finance, or risk groups (such as 
limits, controls, and reporting); this is particularly beneficial for com-
plex organizations with multiple operating subsidiaries. In times of crisis, 
daily responsibility may shift temporarily to a centralized mode, as we 
shall note in the next chapter. 
 In general, preserving some modicum of local/business flexibility is 
important, as it permits those with the best knowledge of a region, mar-
ket, or product to take appropriate actions in managing daily liquidity 
needs. When this flexibility exists, communications back to the central 
function must be strong, or an inaccurate picture of firm-wide liquid-
ity might develop. Regardless of the approach, local and centralized 
responsibilities must be well defined for both normal and crisis scenarios. 
Ultimately, a firm’s risk governance structure must ensure that the liquid-
ity risk management process is robust, well designed, and capable of mini-
mizing liquidity-induced problems.

--- Página 206 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
191
 Liquidity Risk Mandate 
 Directors and executives, acting through the LC, must define the com-
pany’s approach to, and tolerance for, liquidity risk. The process can be 
formalized through a liquidity risk mandate – a definition, or crystal-
lization, of a firm’s approach to risk. For many companies this may be 
an extension to an existing risk process: if a company has already estab-
lished a framework for risk management – and many major firms operat-
ing in the marketplace of the 21st century have – then liquidity risk can 
be regarded as another risk variable to be considered and defined within 
the firm’s overall risk operations. If no such process exists, it should be 
developed as a matter of priority. 
 The liquidity risk mandate is created through a comprehensive risk plan 
and must be supported by relevant risk resources. Since the funding and 
asset liquidity exposures we have considered in previous chapters are an 
element of most corporate activities, a firm must be prepared to accept 
some amount of exposure in its operations. This is a critical point to 
stress: liquidity risk can never be eliminated entirely. But corporate lead-
ers still have the ability to define an overall approach to, and tolerance 
for, risk. If the firm wants to minimize asset and funding exposure in 
order to reduce the likelihood of loss and remain focused on core opera-
tions, it should state so through a formal notification to stakeholders and 
ensure that its controls are strong enough to allow adherence to such a 
philosophy. Conversely, if it prefers to maximize liquidity risk in hopes 
of generating additional returns, its mandate should convey that posi-
tion and stakeholders should be aware that a more significant amount of 
exposure is embedded in corporate operations. 
 Risk plan 
 The liquidity risk mandate should be based on the firm’s overall plan 
for sourcing cash through operations, assets, liabilities, and off-balance 
sheet activities, and should be consistent with general corporate opera-
tions/strategy related to production, investment, and expansion. It 
should also factor in its willingness to be exposed to a low probability/
high severity event. The LC, CFO, and treasurer should create a funding 
plan that addresses the firm’s ongoing needs and seasonal requirements, 
and is sufficiently large, flexible, diversified, and committed to provide 
cash when required; a number of the funding controls we consider below 
can help reinforce the essential components of such a plan. The same 
is true of the firm’s asset portfolio: an appropriate amount and mix of 
liquid and unencumbered assets must form part of the firm’s overall 
risk plan, and can again be reinforced by the right controls. Given the 
growing importance of off-balance sheet items, it is equally vital for the

--- Página 207 ---
192 
Liquidity Risk
firm’s plan to include the correct balance of contingent inflows and 
outflows. 
 In practice, this type of planning function must occur within the con-
fines of the board’s risk directives: the team must focus on how much 
liquidity the firm needs to operate its business under normal conditions, 
cyclical variations, and stressed market conditions, and where (and at 
what cost) it can access liquidity. While the risk plan is necessary for com-
panies in all industries, it is especially critical for those in the financial 
sector, where institutions must determine how to maximize net interest 
earnings (as well as trading revenues) by balancing the cost of providing 
risk capacity to others. Considering potential business opportunities in 
light of current and future market cycles and the relative returns that can 
be earned from interest rate and credit-sensitive activities is one way of 
doing this. 1 
 From a pure liquidity perspective, the risk plan should indicate how 
asset and funding maturities will be managed as the yield curve turns 
positive or negative, foreign exchange volatilities rise, credit defaults 
increase, and so forth. The plan cannot, of course, view liquidity risk in 
isolation – other dimensions of risk must also be considered. We have 
indicated the close relationship that exists between market, credit, and 
liquidity risks; while each can be viewed in isolation, the holistic view is 
far more useful and helps ensure internal consistency. Thus, the firm that 
actively takes a great deal of market and/or credit risk must be prepared 
to assume a considerable amount of liquidity risk and manage all dimen-
sions consistently. 
 Financial and human resources 
 Management must also consider the financial resources that are avail-
able to support liquidity risk exposures (as well as all other financial and 
operating exposures). A firm that has insufficient financial resources to 
take a significant amount of liquidity risk should not do so. Capital, as 
the ultimate buffer against unexpected losses, is the primary driver of 
resource availability. Together with earnings power, funding access and 
maximum acceptable leverage needed to maintain a particular credit rat-
ing, it can help define appropriate risk appetite (or risk tolerance) levels. 
Firms that are well capitalized (from both an economic (internal) and 
regulatory (external) perspective) and have strong earnings power and 
reasonable leverage have greater ability to assume financial and operat-
ing risks, including those associated with liquidity. Such a risk appetite 
should define the maximum acceptable boundary for risk-related losses 
that a company is willing to absorb, in total and per risk class (including 
liquidity risk).

--- Página 208 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
193
 Naturally, any risk resource allocation must be disciplined: directors and 
executives must allocate scarce capital to ventures that yield the greatest 
return to shareholders while being consistent with the overall business 
mandate. Even a well-capitalized firm would be unwise to squander capi-
tal resources on ventures that provide an inadequate return or are not 
associated with the business strategy. Accordingly, the disciplined man-
agement process requires that capital be allocated on a risk-adjusted basis, 
with appropriate minimum hurdle rates and target returns. Risk-adjusting 
profitability across risk classes provides an opportunity for management 
to measure the real worth of risk-taking activities and direct resources 
where value can be maximized. The same applies to human resources and 
intellectual capital; a risk-taking firm must possess both, or it will soon 
jeopardize its resources. 
 A firm must also have an internal risk pricing mechanism in order to 
properly consider risk-adjusted opportunities. This applies to all classes of 
risks being assumed in the normal course of business activities, including 
those associated with liquidity risk. Such an approach is, of course, no 
different than the one commonly used for allocating equity and funding 
charges to individual business units or divisions. In fact, managers facing 
an explicit internal liquidity risk charge are likely to become more sensi-
tized to the liquidity risk being taken; when a charge is levied on a busi-
ness division, that division may become more focused and efficient in its 
use of scarce resources. The opposite is also true: absent such a charge, 
managers may simply take the liquidity risk allocation for granted, despite 
the fact that it is consuming some portion of the firm’s overall risk appe-
tite. This may be suboptimal for the company as a whole. 
 Pricing of liquidity risk can occur at a transaction level for firms that 
have sufficient data granularity and technological capability. When the 
infrastructure isn’t available to support transactional-level allocation, 
then pricing must occur at an overall risk allocation level (e.g., if a busi-
ness consumes 10% of the firm’s liquidity risk appetite, then it must bear 
charges equal to that percentage). Regardless of the approach, the meth-
odology should be as transparent as possible so that business units can 
gain an intuitive understanding of what it means to assume additional 
liquidity risk. 
 Pricing methodologies can vary by firm, but generally center on the 
marginal cost of acquiring or guaranteeing access to incremental liquid-
ity. Such a marginal cost can be estimated, for instance, by taking the dif-
ferential between the firm’s swap rate and the marginal cost of funding. 
This process is relatively straightforward for on-balance sheet accounts 
where the actual or estimated amount of liquidity can be determined 
over specific buckets/time horizons. The task becomes relatively more

--- Página 209 ---
194 
Liquidity Risk
complex for off-balance sheet contingencies where the amount of poten-
tial risk is unknown  ex-ante . In such cases it is common to try to gain 
an estimate by running probability-based scenarios for each underlying 
contingency and then applying the marginal cost of obtaining liquidity. 
While not perfect, it provides a general estimate and allows a degree of 
pricing consistency to flow through businesses taking liquidity risk. 
 Business divisions that have the ability to specifically pass on the 
liquidity risk charge to an external end-use customer through their own 
pricing may wish to do so. In some cases this is easily done as it is part 
of the business service being provided (e.g., liquidity provision, maturity 
transformation). 2 In other instances it may be rather more difficult to do 
so, and a business unit may have to absorb the internal charge as “a cost 
of doing business.” 
 Creation of a liquidity risk mandate ultimately ensures that manage-
ment has:
 analyzed the costs and benefits of running liquidity risks of varying 
 
●
size 
 determined how exposures influence corporate operations and profit-
 
●
ability 
 defined an acceptable risk appetite and allocated financial resources to 
 
●
support any losses that might arise under normal and stress conditions 
(and ensuring that an internal pricing mechanism properly transfers 
the resource costs) 
 communicated its approach to interested parties, including investors, 
 
●
regulators, creditors, and customers. 
 With a liquidity risk mandate in place, the firm’s LC can actively meas-
ure and control liquidity risk in a manner consistent with the company’s 
overall philosophy. 
 Management Duties and Responsibilities 
 Managing liquidity risk is an important, and often complex, task that 
must be handled professionally and diligently. It is critical to remember 
that the exercise is not one of simply collecting data, measuring and then 
reporting results; true management involves creating an internal sensibil-
ity and awareness on the topic and planning for how all manner of con-
tingencies can be handled in practice. Effective management of liquidity 
involves operational, financial, and behavioral actions, with specific 
duties that relate to a company’s liquidity status – that is, whether it is 
operating in a normal environment with ample liquidity, whether it is

--- Página 210 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
195
facing a troubled environment with an increasingly challenging liquidity 
position, or whether it is operating in a very hostile and volatile environ-
ment with severe liquidity pressures. 
 In the normal course of business, the management of liquidity risk 
covers distinct time horizons that correspond to the nature of a com-
pany’s business, its financial condition, and the strength of the external 
environment. Some functions must be performed every day, others every 
week, month, or quarter. Daily procedures typically involve:
 managing current cash inflows and outflows by balancing positions 
 
●
through cash management, rollovers, bank line draw downs, and other 
short-term funding sources 
 examining cash surpluses and deficits arising over the key overnight 
 
●
to one month horizon and developing appropriate short-term response 
strategies 
 monitoring the cash flow position in relation to limits that have been 
 
●
established 
 examining liquidity crisis “early warning” indicators and invoking the 
 
●
crisis management program when, and if, necessary. 
 Weekly, monthly, and quarterly management, in contrast, is centered on:
 analyzing ongoing cash needs over the 1 to 24 month horizon 
 
●
 developing new sources of funding to meet anticipated changes in cash 
 
●
flow patterns and continuing to diversify the funding base; building 
and deepening relationships with creditors to develop a mutual sense 
of trust 
 restructuring the investment or asset portfolios to help fulfil liquidity 
 
●
goals 
 changing the current liability mix to suit future requirements or take 
 
●
advantage of cost/market opportunities 
 running stress scenarios on current and future portfolios to detect 
 
●
areas of strength and weakness; weaknesses must be flagged and dealt 
with immediately, rather than waiting until a future point where they 
become too challenging to manage 
 proposing adjustments to the liquidity risk mandate, consistent with 
 
●
the firm’s liquidity risk appetite and business strategies, with a view 
towards maximizing returns for a given level of liquid holdings and 
committed financing. 
 As noted above, the LC must formalize delegation of daily and periodic 
responsibilities; there should be no doubt about which individuals, teams,

--- Página 211 ---
196 
Liquidity Risk
or departments are responsible for managing individual aspects of the 
process. 
 Not surprisingly, as a company’s liquidity situation becomes more 
strained, behavioral actions intensify. It is naturally important for man-
agement to determine whether the difficulties are endogenous, exoge-
nous, or both. A mild internal event will demand actions to quickly repair 
the balance sheet and core operations, hopefully with good cooperation 
from external stakeholders. This must be done as a matter of priority in 
order to avoid slipping into a more serious situation – when restructuring 
operations becomes more difficult. If it is a more severe event , or indeed 
involves external pressures from some market dislocation, then a more 
formalized process, embedded in the liquidity crisis management pro-
gram, must be put into effect. We discuss this topic in the next chapter. 
 Liquidity Risk Controls 
 In order to control liquidity risk in a manner that is consistent with the 
firm’s mandate, the LC must first develop and implement a set of poli-
cies and procedures. Liquidity policies can be considered a “high level” 
expression of a company’s approach to liquidity risk, conveying strate-
gies for dealing with methodologies and exposures. Examples of common 
liquidity policies include:
 asset diversification 
 
●
 funding diversification 
 
●
 monitoring and control 
 
●
 limit setting and approval 
 
●
 stress testing 
 
●
 function of the ALCO 
 
●
 contingency funding plan 
 
●
 Liquidity procedures accompany the policies, providing practical detail 
on executing the policies – functioning, in effect, as a type of “user’s 
manual.” An effective set of procedures, based on the policy-related docu-
ments above, assigns responsibilities, describes mechanical steps involved 
in tracking and controlling different elements of liquidity risk method-
ologies and exposure, and serves ultimately to institutionalize the aspira-
tional policy documents. 
 In practice, short and intermediate liquidity management is centered 
on the creation and use of tools that control asset, funding, and off-bal-
ance sheet exposures. Depending on the nature of the firm, its scope of 
operations, and approach to decentralization, controls may be applied

--- Página 212 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
197
on a consolidated basis, business unit/regional basis, and/or legal entity 
basis. Indeed, legal entity controls are vital when considering regulatory 
restrictions that may be applied to holding company activities, parent/
subsidiary financing, and dividend/cash flow upstreaming; the liquidity 
relationships between cross-border, intragroup companies must be well 
understood or a firm might find itself in breach of local rules or suscepti-
ble to trapped funds. 3 
 The LC must create a balance of controls: enough to cover the true 
sources of risk, but not so many that the resulting matrix becomes dif-
ficult to implement or manage. In practice, firms may create overarching 
consolidated controls and then establish granular sub-limits by business 
unit/region/legal entity. To illustrate the mechanics of the process, we 
consider five general categories of controls under the broad umbrella of 
liquidity procedures:
 Asset liquidity controls 
 
●
 Funding liquidity controls 
 
●
 Joint liquidity controls 
 
●
 Off-balance sheet liquidity controls 
 
●
 Other safeguards. 
 
●
 (Note that these should be supplemented by a comprehensive crisis 
management/contingency funding plan, which we consider in the next 
chapter.) 
 Many of the controls we consider in this section are limit-based. Limits, 
which can be denominated in different forms (for example, value or 
percentage), are useful in constraining different types of exposures in a 
manner that is consistent with a firm’s liquidity risk mandate and syn-
chronized with the risk appetite. Indeed, they are a transparent way of 
gauging and corralling liquidity exposures, and can be implemented with 
relative ease once measurement has taken place (and presuming data and 
technology infrastructure are robust enough to capture distinct elements 
of risk exposure). 
 Asset liquidity controls 
 A company can use a number of controls to manage its asset liquid-
ity risk, including those that divide the balance sheet between liquid 
and fixed assets, those that restrict different elements of the liquid asset 
portfolio, and those that establish ceilings on the amount of assets 
that can be pledged to creditors at any time. Firms in capital-intensive 
industries have less flexibility in the amount of liquid assets they can

--- Página 213 ---
198 
Liquidity Risk
maintain. The bulk of their productive assets must be allocated to sourc-
ing, processing, or creating raw materials/finished goods; the remaining 
liquid assets must often be held in receivables and inventory, which, as 
we have already noted, are characterized by varying degrees of market-
ability. The control focus is therefore on ensuring enough high-quality 
liquidity in the remaining balance of assets on hand. Financial and 
non-financial service companies face the reverse situation: they hold a 
majority of assets in relatively more liquid form, suggesting they have 
a greater need to manage the liquid asset portfolio on a continuous, 
dynamic basis. 
 Liquid and fixed asset limits 
 At a broad level, a company must ensure that it establishes a minimum 
holding of liquid assets and that it sets a cap on its fixed assets. Setting 
limits on liquid and fixed assets is likely to be a twofold process: review-
ing historical experience through multiple business/economic cycles, 
then projecting what might be required over various future intervals. 
History can provide important information on the level of liquidity 
needed to manage a business under normal market conditions and can 
demonstrate the effects of surplus or deficit liquidity. For example, a 
steel company might find that it must hold 10 percent of its assets in 
cash, investments, and receivables, 20 percent in steel inventories, and 
70 percent in plant and equipment in order to operate securely and 
profitably under normal market conditions. This is a relevant starting 
point in calibrating liquid/fixed asset limits. Since history cannot nec-
essarily predict future events, the results of the stress tests discussed in 
the last chapter should be used to consider liquidity demands under 
various growth/contraction assumptions. These results might reveal 
instances where the historical liquid/fixed asset mix proves insufficient; 
proper adjustments can then be made, bearing in mind the liquidity 
risk/return trade-off we discussed in Part I. If, after running a variety 
of scenarios that factor in certain events related to environmental liti-
gation or import tariffs, the steel company determines that it might 
face unexpected cash demands over the next 12 months that cannot be 
properly accommodated by its funding program, it may then alter the 
mix of its liquid versus fixed assets slightly – increasing cash/marketable 
securities investments and receivables from 10 percent to 15 percent, 
reducing inventories by 5 percent in response, and keeping constant its 
plant and equipment. 
 The same type of broad asset mix exercise can be performed for com-
panies in other industries. The end goal, in all cases, should be guid-
ance limits on overall asset composition related to potential sources of

--- Página 214 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
199
future liquidity. Again, this implies minimum amounts of liquid assets 
(including cash and receivables), a maximum amount of inventories (on 
the assumption that, although they are more liquid than plant and equip-
ment, they are less liquid than cash and receivables), and a maximum 
amount of fixed plant and equipment. 
 Figure 9.2 provides an example of the fixed/liquid asset limit 
approach. 
 Liquid asset limits 
 The liquid asset portfolio, or liquidity warehouse, is the core of a firm’s 
asset backup and must be constructed properly and managed carefully. 
A firm is well advised to place limits on maximum concentration, matu-
rity, quality, complexity, and aging within the warehouse; this can help 
ensure appropriate balance under the risk/return framework and the 
firm’s liquidity risk mandate, and reduce the likelihood of a cash flow 
deficit remaining uncovered. Construction of the portfolio should reflect 
an appropriate degree of conservatism: it is not advisable to invest cash 
in less marketable assets simply for the sake of trying to earn a few extra 
basis points of yield. 
 While the liquid asset portfolio is important for all firms, it is particu-
larly critical for those relying on volatile, short-term wholesale funding 
sources that can be withdrawn quickly; an even greater focus must be 
placed on creating a liquidity portfolio that is readily convertible into 
cash. Note that while regulated banks must construct their liquid asset 
Assets
Liabilities
Equity
Total liquid assets
Minimum of x% or x$ of total assets
Cash and marketable securities
Minimum of x% or x$ of total assets
Receivables
Minimum of x% or x$ of total assets
Inventories
Maximum of x% or x$ of total assets
Total fixed assets
Maximum of x% or x$ of total assets
 Figure 9.2  Fixed/liquid asset limits

--- Página 215 ---
200 
Liquidity Risk
portfolios with the same care, they are likely to be operating under even 
stricter definitional requirements, as we shall discuss later in the book in 
our coverage of new regulatory measures. 
 
 
●Concentration: we noted in Chapter 5 that concentrations can lead to 
liquidation problems: a large position can be more difficult to liquefy at 
carrying value than a small position, all else being equal. Accordingly, 
the absolute size of any liquid asset held on the balance sheet should 
be capped. There are obviously exceptions to this rule: holding a large 
block of on-the-run Treasuries or benchmark gilts, for instance, is 
unlikely to create any meaningful liquidity-induced loss if the block 
needs to be sold or pledged quickly, so these should be accommodated 
in the limit process (either through specific exceptions or larger sub-
limits). In general, however, concentrations have to be avoided through 
limits that cap the maximum amount of an issue, issuer, or asset class 
at a particular value or percentage of the total liquidity portfolio (and 
overall balance sheet). For instance, a firm might establish maximum 
asset concentration limits of $100 million for any single high-grade 
corporate bond issue, $200 million for any conventional prime mort-
gage-backed security, and $1 billion for any on-the-run Treasury or gilt 
position. In developing appropriate limits, it is important to consider 
that individual assets that appear to be independent and uncorrelated 
might actually become correlated in times of market stress. For exam-
ple, a high-yield bond position and an emerging market bond position, 
which might move independently during normal market conditions, 
might react in a similar fashion during a financial crisis; two previ-
ously acceptable positions might now become a single, concentrated, 
high-risk position, so due consideration must be given to this fact when 
setting limits. 
 
 
●Maturity:  asset maturities should be tightly controlled. Assets with short-
term maturities provide a firm with more immediate access to cash 
than those with long-term maturities (although they are exposed to 
greater reinvestment risk and may also be lower-yielding). Converting 
long-term assets into cash might result in a larger discount to carrying 
value, leading to losses/shortfalls, so an appropriate balance of short- 
versus long-term maturities should be instituted. General limits can 
be set to cap the value and/or percentage amount of liquid assets in 
specific maturity buckets. For instance, a firm may set a minimum 
of 10 percent of assets maturing within 30 days, a further 20 percent 
within 60 days, 20 percent within 180 days, and a maximum of 50 per-
cent maturing beyond 180 days. The process cannot, of course, be done 
in isolation: if a firm is attempting to create a matched operation in

--- Página 216 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
201
order to minimize liquidity risk, then asset maturities (or more accu-
rate durations) must take account of liability maturities. Assets with an 
uncertain time horizon can obviously complicate the cash flow analy-
sis by giving a potentially false picture of asset maturities, so care must 
be taken when tabulating maturity exposures. 
 
 
●Credit quality: the quality of assets comprising the firm’s liquid portfo-
lio should be carefully considered. Since liquid assets must be readily 
available to convert into cash or pledge as collateral, it is prudent to 
cap the amount that can be held in sub-investment-grade instruments 
that have a higher degree of price volatility and greater probability of 
default. Thus, a firm may limit by value and/or percentage the port-
folio of securities and receivables in the sub-investment-grade ratings 
category (and even within individual sub-investment-grade bands). For 
example, it may set a maximum of 10 percent of the liquid asset port-
folio in credit obligations of BBB–/Baa3 issuers/customers, 5 percent 
for those rated BB+/Ba1, and 1 percent for any rated below that level. 
Although the risk/return trade-off surfaces once again (that is, hold-
ing a greater percentage of lower yielding/higher quality assets that 
are certain to provide a more stable liquidation value, versus higher 
yielding/lower quality instruments that might have questionable liq-
uidation value), the conservative stance suggests tight limits should be 
placed on lower-credit, quality assets. A further note of caution must 
be emphasized. In particular, the financial crisis of 2007–2008 dem-
onstrated that not all AAA- and AA-rated securities merit such ratings. 
For instance, 80 percent of all AAA-rated securitizations issued in 2006 
were ultimately downgraded during the crisis, some to very low lev-
els indeed. Accordingly, thorough, independent due diligence on the 
credit quality and proper credit rating of assets in the portfolio must be 
undertaken. Total reliance on third-party analysis is not advisable. 
 
 
●Complexity: we know that asset marketability is important in managing 
liquidity. Assets that are simple and transparent can be valued with ease 
and typically have a broader base of buyers than those that are overly 
complex or opaque (e.g., structured notes with embedded derivatives). 
Accordingly, limits on the value and/or percentage of complex assets 
that can be held in the liquid portfolio can prevent over-investment 
in instruments that might otherwise be too difficult to sell or pledge. 
For instance, a firm may limit to 1 percent or 3 percent its holdings of 
assets it deems to be complex, such as structured notes or other exotic 
securities. Of course, a more prudent and conservative stance would be 
to disallow entirely from the buffer any such structured assets. 
 
 
●Aging: every firm holding a portfolio of liquid assets for operating, 
investment, and liquidity purposes must ensure that the portfo-

--- Página 217 ---
202 
Liquidity Risk
lio turns over regularly. When securities, investments, inventories, 
or receivables are not regularly being sold, renewed, replenished, or 
replaced, there is a significant chance that the assets are illiquid. This 
chance of illiquidity might be the result of mispricing, changing mar-
ket conditions, excessive complexity, or regulations, and it calls into 
question carrying value . For instance, if a firm finds that receivables 
have historically turned over every 30 days but the horizon has gradu-
ally lengthened to 60 days, then its portfolio has become far less liq-
uid (and might be the source of credit, pricing, and market problems). 
The same can be applied to securities inventories that fall within the 
liquid portion of the balance sheet. It is therefore important for a firm 
to limit and monitor the value and/or percentage of the asset port-
folio aged beyond specific time horizons. For instance, a firm may 
choose to set limits of 5 percent of liquid assets in the 90 day-plus 
aging category and 2 percent in the 180 day-plus category. By doing so 
it ensures that management addresses instances where holding peri-
ods are lengthening. 
 In some cases it is useful to subdivide a liquidity warehouse into more 
granular portfolios that reflect specific liquidity risk and return charac-
teristics. This approach preserves layers of liquidity while focusing on 
imperatives related to enterprise value maximization. For instance, a firm 
might create a liquidity warehouse with three subportfolios: portfolio 1, 
used for immediate cash needs and comprised exclusively of cash and 
near cash instruments with little or no yield; portfolio 2, a discretion-
ary portfolio used to meet regular payments that cannot be covered by 
portfolio 1 (or other cheap funding), and comprised of very liquid assets 
with a low yield; and, portfolio 3, a stable portfolio to be used only for 
exceptional payments, and comprised of somewhat less liquid securities 
(or other current assets, such as receivables). Each one of these can be 
governed by the limits described immediately above. 
 Figure 9.3 summarizes the limit structure within the liquid asset 
portfolio. 
 Collateral/pledging limits 
 Since pledging assets for cash is often preferable to outright disposal, a 
firm must avoid a situation where all of its assets have unknowingly been 
pledged in support of other funding facilities. A limit structure can cap 
the maximum amount of assets that can be pledged, per asset account, 
in support of funding. Any breach of these limits should serve as a warn-
ing signal that financial flexibility is declining rapidly, and broader prob-
lems related to unsecured funding access are at work. For instance, in

--- Página 218 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
203
order to ensure a sufficient liquidity buffer through future asset pledges, 
a company may limit its encumbered receivables to 40 percent of the total 
receivables portfolio, encumbered inventory to 50 percent, and encum-
bered plant and equipment to 70 percent. If the firm finds that it is pledg-
ing more assets to secure funding and is approaching any, or all, of its 
collateral/pledging limits, it should investigate the reasons as a matter of 
urgency. 
Assets
Liabilities
Equity
Total liquid assets
Minimum of x% or x$ of total assets
Subportfolio 1
Subportfolio 2
Subportfolio 3
Concentration
Maximum of x% or x$ of liquid assets
Maturity
Minimum of x% or x$ of liquid assets in
short-term maturity/duration, per bucket
Maximum of x% or x$ of liquid assets in
medium/long-term maturity/duration,
per bucket
Quality
Maximum of x% or x$ of liquid assets
per ratings category
Complexity
Maximum of x% or x$ of liquid assets
classified as complex
Aging
Maximum of x% or x$ of liquid assets
classified as aged (e.g.over 60,90,
180 days)
 Figure 9.3  Liquid asset limits

--- Página 219 ---
204 
Liquidity Risk
 Figure 9.4 summarizes the limit structure related to collateral and 
pledging. 
 Funding liquidity controls 
 A firm must control its funding profile closely in order to minimize the 
possibility of a funding liquidity loss. This is particularly true for firms 
that are very dependent on volatile short-term financing. Limits should 
be established to ensure proper funding diversification and commitment. 
As with assets, the funding profile is heavily dependent on the nature of 
the company and its operating industry: some firms rely more heavily on 
short-term funding, others on medium- and long-term funding. Ideally, 
companies should strive for a mix of liabilities in order to maximize the 
number of options and achieve an optimal cost of funding. That said, in 
some cases it can be beneficial to opportunistically issue or fund in the 
medium- or long-term markets in order to lock up a core of stable financ-
ing; while this may indeed create a negative carry situation (e.g., cost of 
funding greater than invested return), it should simply be viewed as a 
form of “liquidity insurance premium.” As we have noted, having a mul-
titude of options becomes particularly important during times of market 
stress. For example, if the medium-term loan market closes down, a firm 
that has historically match-funded its capital assets with medium-term 
Assets
Liabilities
Equity
Total liquid assets
Maximum of x% or x$ of total liquid
assets pledged as collateral
Cash and marketable securities
Maximum of x% or x$ of total cash/
securities pledged as collateral
Receivables
Maximum of x% or x$ of total
receivables pledged as collateral
Inventories
Maximum of x% or x$ of total
inventories pledged as collateral
Total fixed assets
Maximum of x% or x$ of total fixed
assets pledged as collateral
 Figure 9.4  Collateral/pledging limits

--- Página 220 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
205
financing must be able to quickly seek alternatives from the short-term 
market. While the risk management effort might be more involved (for 
instance, having to hedge short-term liabilities with medium-term assets), 
the important point is that the company preserves access to some type of 
financing.  Ex-ante establishment of a range of facilities is thus a critical 
element of the management process and can be driven by a structure that 
limits usage in any particular financing sector. 
 Diversified funding limits 
 In order to create a balanced funding program that eliminates undue 
concentrations and over-reliance on single sources, a firm should create 
funding limits across markets, products, maturities, and lenders/ inves-
tors. Naturally, the definition of what constitutes a funding concentra-
tion is likely to vary by institution, industry, and national system, and 
might be influenced by the corporate governance process or mandated 
by regulators. 4 
 
 
●Markets: the limit process can begin at a macro level through the estab-
lishment of maximum amounts that can be drawn from any broad 
marketplace, such as the CP, MTN, deposit, loan, or long-term offshore 
bond markets. Limits can be established in both value and percentage 
terms. For example, a firm may cap market access at $250 million from 
any single marketplace, or not more than 40 percent of liabilities from 
the US market, 30 percent from the Euromarkets, and so on. Where 
relevant, geographic/national market restrictions can be imposed; this 
can be useful for funding that is sourced from marketplaces where reg-
ulators might place controls, levies, or reserve requirements on non-
domestic borrowers (i.e., sovereign risks). 
 
 
●Products: the value or percentage of the funding portfolio can be limited 
by product type – a more granular representation of the market limits 
above. For instance, a bank might cap CP/ECP financing at 10 percent 
of all funding, short-term interbank deposits at 20 percent, repurchase 
agreements at 25 percent, subordinated debentures at 30 percent, and 
so forth. Following the logic immediately above, this process ensures a 
firm does not become overly dependent on a single source of product-
based funding and decreases its vulnerability to financial loss should 
product-specific financing be suspended for a period of time. Note that 
there may be an occasional exception to this rule for certain institu-
tions (e.g., banks), which may find it beneficial to have a more concen-
trated exposure to a financing product if that product is proven over 
time (and stressed market conditions) to be highly stable (e.g., sticky 
retail deposits). This, however, must be viewed as exceptional.

--- Página 221 ---
206 
Liquidity Risk
 
 
●Maturities: the contractual maturity of liabilities must be constrained 
so that a firm does not face an excessive repayment or rollover bur-
den. As noted above, limits on funding maturities (durations) should 
not be considered separately from those set for asset maturities; a firm 
trying to match-fund a significant portion of its balance sheet must 
consider the two elements jointly. Where possible, however, it is criti-
cal for maturities to be properly dispersed across a reasonably wide 
maturity horizon, with an appropriate mix of short-, medium-, and 
long-term funds. For instance, a firm may set a maximum of 10 per-
cent of funding on an overnight basis and 10 percent up to one week, 
and a minimum of 30 percent from one week to one month, minimum 
30 percent from one month to two months, and minimum 20 percent 
beyond two months. The actual composition will depend, of course, 
on the company, its business, its balance sheet composition, and so 
forth. 
 Care must also be taken to consider the behavioral and contractual 
 
●
maturities of the liabilities. This can be a complex task, and is gener-
ally only possible with direct experience on how investors and lenders 
behave regarding rollovers, extensions or callability/putability. There 
is no precise way to determine, for instance, whether a short-term 
investor base will continue to rollover its CP, ECP, demand deposits, 
or overnight repos, or whether holders of insurance liabilities with 
short-term put features will exercise their options. When doubts exist, 
the preferred route is to assume a conservative, though still realistic, 
stance. Firms should always limit funding structures with embedded 
options, triggers, or clauses that give investors or creditors the right to 
call away their capital at short notice (for example, embedded market 
put options, ratings downgrade clauses, financial ratio triggers, and so 
forth). In addition, maturities on optionable funds must be appropri-
ately staggered; while a putable feature increases funding liquidity risk, 
the severity of that liquidity risk depends on whether all of the puts 
are exercisable at a given time horizon (for instance, seven days from 
exercise) or whether they can be spread out (say, 7, 30, 60, or 90 days). 
Staggering reduces the spectre of a sudden funding withdrawal. 5 
 
 
●Lenders/Investors: the diversified funding program must take account 
of the number and quality of lenders/investors providing financing. A 
company must again limit the amount it draws from any single lender 
or investor, minimizing its reliance on any institution that may be 
unwilling or unable to supply funds at some future point. For instance, 
a firm may cap at 5 percent all funding derived from a single CP/ECP 
investor, 10 percent from any single commercial bank, and so forth. 
For some sectors, such as banking, it is important to limit the overall

--- Página 222 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
207
amount sourced from the entire class of wholesale investors/deposi-
tors (e.g., as a percentage of total liabilities), as this group tends to be 
sophisticated in its funding analysis, can shift capital relatively quickly, 
and can act collectively to withdraw funds precisely when they may 
be needed most. 
 
  When considering maximum value or percentage limits, it is impor-
tant to take account of correlations between the firm and lenders/
investors that might appear during times of market stress: if the firm is 
relying on a small number of institutions for liquidity, and those insti-
tutions are exposed to the same exogenous factors that might cause the 
firm to demand liquidity, the supply of funds might not be available 
when required. 
 
  Apart from limiting exposure to name-specific lenders/investors, it 
is prudent to limit participation by broad credit rating, with value or 
amount that decreases as credit quality declines; this helps protect the 
firm from becoming overly exposed to borderline investment-grade 
or sub-investment-grade institutions that might be unable to provide 
funding if they encounter financial difficulties of their own. 
 
  It is worth noting that while lender diversification limits are 
important, a firm must still try to deal with a “manageable” number 
of institutions. This is important in the event the firm encounters 
financial difficulties and must restructure the financing relation-
ship, or if it wants to have an active investor relationship effort that 
calls for timely communiques with debt investors and creditors. For 
instance, a firm wants to avoid renegotiating terms with dozens of 
banks that form part of a diversified syndicate; it is far better if it 
can deal with a relatively small number and reach agreement on 
new terms more rapidly. In this example, lender diversification is a 
balancing act; a compromise solution can be achieved by incorporat-
ing a reasonably large number of banks under a single master credit 
agreement (presuming “unanimous consent” clauses in the agree-
ment can be minimized). 
 Figure 9.5 summarizes diversified funding limits. 
 Committed facility limits 
 Limits that constrain the type of contingent funding commitment 
drawn from the loan markets represent another form of control. It is 
essential for a firm relying on bank lines to be confident that facilities 
will be available precisely when they are needed; this means explicitly 
limiting or minimizing those that might not be available under all mar-
ket circumstances. Note that this type of control can more accurately be

--- Página 223 ---
208 
Liquidity Risk
considered a hybrid of on-balance sheet funding and off-balance sheet 
contingent financing, as it is dependent on whether or not facilities have 
already been partially or fully drawn; we discuss the matter in this sec-
tion for continuity. 
 
 
●Advised facilities: recalling our discussion on theoretical and actual 
sources of liquidity, the conservative view assumes advised facilities 
will be withdrawn at the first instance of internal or external difficulty, 
Assets
Liabilities
Equity
Markets
Maximum of x% or x$ of total funding
from a single market
Products
Maximum of x% or x$ of total funding
from a single product
Maturity
Maximum of x% or x$ of total funding
in short-term maturity/duration,
per bucket
Minimum of x% or x$ of total funding
in medium/long-term maturity/
duration,per bucket
Lenders/investors
Maximum of x% or x$ of total funding
from a single lender and per rating
Total funding sources
 Figure 9.5  Diversified funding limits

--- Página 224 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
209
meaning a source of funding will be lost. Maximum value and percent-
age limits should therefore be applied to any facility that is considered 
to be advised, for which no commitment fee has been paid by the firm 
to the lender(s), and which is not governed by a formal credit agree-
ment. In practice a firm should severely limit the amount of funding it 
obtains from advised facilities and be prepared to discount availability 
entirely in turbulent times. 
 
 
●Committed facilities: these facilities, for which a firm pays standby 
and usage fees, and which are governed by credit agreements, are far 
more robust and reliable than advised facilities. Accordingly, a greater 
amount of a firm’s diversified loan program should be based on such 
lines. That said, the nature of the commitment must still be analyzed 
as some limits may be required. For instance, some commitments are 
subject to the fulfilment of positive and/or negative covenants. A bor-
rowing firm might be required to maintain certain minimum finan-
cial ratios, or agree not to engage in certain activities, in order to 
preserve its right to borrow under a facility. Some of these covenants 
are prudent and intended to protect both parties. However, a firm 
should cap the maximum amount of draw-down when covenants 
are too restrictive or conservative. If there is a significant likelihood 
that the covenants will be breached when the firm is experiencing 
financial pressure – precisely when it might require access to liquid-
ity – the lender might withdraw the facility, compounding pressures. 
When financial covenants are less restrictive, and are unlikely to be 
breached even under difficult times, a firm can have greater confi-
dence that the facility will remain intact, ready for draw-down when 
needed – and thus increase its percentage allocation under the fund-
ing program. 
 The same approach should apply when considering material adverse 
 
●
change (MAC) clauses; if a facility contains “market-outs” that can 
be interpreted very liberally by the lender, tighter limits should be 
imposed. Conversely, when a MAC is defined very precisely and lim-
ited to the onset of truly materially adverse conditions (that is, it is an 
“escape-proof MAC”), greater allocation can be considered. 
 It is important to stress that financial covenants and MACs can quickly 
 
●
magnify a small problem, so due care must be taken when consider-
ing contractual language and the possible effect on liquidity access. 6 
Note that similar covenants and ratio tests are periodically included in 
public debt offerings, meaning the same guidelines should be applied. 
(That is, if a covenant or ratio is breached, the company, as issuer of 
the securities, might be forced to redeem the bond, or commence or 
accelerate payments into a sinking fund.)

--- Página 225 ---
210 
Liquidity Risk
 Figure 9.6 summarizes committed facility limits. 
 Joint liquidity controls 
 While individual control of asset and funding risks is essential, it is equally 
important for a firm to control the risks arising from a combined view of 
the two. In practice this can be accomplished by setting limits related to 
cash flow gaps, overall balance sheet targets, and hybrid ratios. 
 Cash flow gap limits 
 In the last chapter we considered cash flow gaps arising from asset and 
liability mismatches (as well as those generated by off-balance sheet 
Assets
Liabilities
Equity
Advised facilities
Maximum of x% or x$ of total
funding from advised facilities
Committed facilities
Maximum of x% or x$ of total funding
from committed facilities (dependent on
covenants, MACs*)
* may also apply to capital markets issues
Total bank funding sources
Off-balance sheet
funding commitments
 Figure 9.6  Committed facility limits

--- Página 226 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
211
activities). By dissecting corporate cash inflows and outflows over dis-
crete time horizons, or through more intricate measures such as duration 
or probability-based statistical analyses, a firm determines whether it will 
face an NFR surplus or deficit. Establishing gap limits reduces the chance 
that a firm will have an NFR deficit that it cannot adequately meet. From 
a practical perspective a firm can compute its NFR gap in a manner of 
its choosing, and then set maximum limits per discrete time/duration 
horizon, along with a cumulative limit for a given block of time/duration. 
The most relevant time/duration horizons are likely to cover the over-
night to one-month period – thereafter a firm might have enough ability 
to reshape elements of its cash flow profile to rely solely on monthly or 
quarterly limits. 
 Consider, for instance, a company with reasonable access to funding 
through its backup facilities and liquidity warehouse. It may feel com-
fortable that it can quickly draw-down $200 million, and therefore sets 
its NFR gap from balance sheet and off-balance sheet items at $50 mil-
lion on any given day and $150 million for a cumulative one-week 
period. Similarly, a financial institution that uses duration-based RSAs 
and RSLs to compute rate gaps and plan interest-rate risk and business 
origination strategies can set individual maximum net open gap limits 
by bucket, such as $50 million per day for the next month. By utiliz-
ing these gap measures in conjunction with the other asset and fund-
ing mechanisms mentioned above, a firm controls the joint interaction 
of cash inflows and outflows from its assets, liabilities, and off-balance 
sheet contingencies. 
 Naturally, other cash flow gap limits can be considered, such as maxi-
mum overnight funding limits (to minimize the need to seek emergency 
funds through regulatory channels) and foreign currency gap limits (to 
minimize the risk of being unable to properly fund offshore operations 
without assuming significant foreign exchange exposure). 7 A firm should 
carefully evaluate the nature of its operations to determine whether other 
types of limits are necessary. 
 It is important to re-emphasize that cash flow limits are likely to be a 
reasonable, though not perfect, constraint on exposures; we have already 
noted that unexpected cash flows arising at a future time are one of the 
key causes of liquidity problems. However, by establishing gap limits with 
some buffer to allow for a certain amount of unexpected change, a firm 
can deal with a broad range of likely outcomes. 
 Balance sheet target limits 
 Joint asset and funding risks can also be controlled through balance sheet 
target limits, which cap the amount and speed of balance sheet growth 
and help ensure that business opportunities do not outpace a firm’s ability

--- Página 227 ---
212 
Liquidity Risk
to properly fund them. Without such controls a firm that is expanding 
rapidly through organic growth or acquisition might find that it has not 
appropriately considered its funding needs, and the leverage it has used 
for expansion purposes may not be calibrated with the liquidity profile 
of the assets being funded. For instance, a company with $100 million in 
fixed assets and $100 million in liquid assets, funded with $150 million 
of long-term debt and $50 million of equity, might have an opportunity 
to buy a competitor or enter into a large investment project that will add 
$100 million in fixed assets. The firm may simply issue $100 million of 
CP to fund the expansion, leaving it with a significant increase in lever-
age, a large funding mismatch, and a far less liquid asset portfolio; each 
of these could add to liquidity pressures. By establishing broad controls 
on total assets, total debt, and total liabilities, a firm restricts the amount 
of expansion that can occur without a thorough,  ex ante evaluation of 
financing and liquidity alternatives. 
 Hybrid ratio limits 
 A firm can also consider using hybrid ratios to control aspects of liquid-
ity risk. These limits include a mix of balance sheet, off-balance sheet, 
cash flow, and/or income statement accounts, and are a combination of 
stock and flow measures. For instance, a firm may wish to ensure that it 
has adequate coverage of short-term obligations coming due, and it can 
set a limit based on the following ratio: cash, haircut value of unencum-
bered securities, and the unsecured portion of unused, committed lines, 
divided by unsecured debt due within 12 months. The ratio must remain 
above a minimum level at all times; if it does not, then its coverage of 
short-term liabilities is weakening and should prompt management to 
take corrective action. 
 Alternatively, a firm may wish to establish a minimum defensive 
interval of one month without tapping new sources of funding, and 
might establish the following limit: cash inflows from all sources during 
the month and haircut value of unencumbered securities, divided by 
cash outflows from all sources during the month. Again, the ratio must 
remain above a specified level, and if it weakens, management must 
be prepared to take corrective action. Similar types of hybrid ratios, 
including those tailored to specific industries, can be developed to limit 
exposures. 
 Off-balance sheet controls 
 Since off-balance sheet items can impact cash inflows and outflows, some-
times dramatically, they must be properly constrained. In practice this

--- Página 228 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
213
can be done through limits on forward commitments and contingencies. 
As already noted, off-balance sheet funding contingencies that generate 
cash through draw-down (such as advised or committed bank lines) are 
described in the funding section above. 
 Forward commitments and contingencies 
 Cash flows from derivatives, loan participations, revolving credit agree-
ments, letters of credit, leases, recourse facilities, and guarantees supply 
and absorb cash, and must therefore be explicitly controlled. Though cash 
flows might be certain or uncertain (for instance, a true contingency that 
might or might not come to pass at some future time), the conservative 
approach caps, by future period, any net cash outflows that might require 
funding. Such limits control the amount and speed of off-balance sheet 
growth, and help ensure that contingencies do not outpace the firm’s 
ability to properly fund them. In fact, this is consistent with the balance 
sheet target limits described above, but applicable specifically to the gross 
amount of contracts with uncertain timing and value that might create 
cash outflows or require funding. 
 The same need not necessarily apply to net cash inflows, unless they are 
intended to fund another future obligation (that is, if the contingent cash 
inflow does not occur but the future obligation must still be funded, the 
firm will have to seek alternate sources of financing). Since this approach 
involves establishing limits on contingent cash inflows and outflows, it 
can be viewed as a stressed scenario limit framework that assumes the 
worst case will occur. In addition to limiting the absolute amount of con-
tingent exposure over various future time horizons, the structure should 
control concentrations and credit quality, as in the discussion above. 
These may be denominated in value or percentage terms. 
 Figure 9.7 summarizes the limit structure for forward commitments 
and contingencies. 
 We have presented a matrix of limits that can be used to control dif-
ferent aspects of liquidity risk in a manner that is consistent with the 
board-directed liquidity risk mandate and appetite. As we have indi-
cated, these limits must be linked to the company’s desire and ability to 
absorb liquidity-induced losses of a given magnitude – that is, they need 
to be properly synchronized with the liquidity risk mandate and over-
arching business strategies. In practice, however, they should be consid-
ered limits rather than absolute ceilings. In the normal course of affairs 
a company will find opportunities to engage in incremental business 
that might add risk and breach previously agreed limits. A strict read-
ing of policy and procedure might suggest this is unacceptable. In real-
ity, exceptions can, and should, be accommodated to take advantage of

--- Página 229 ---
214 
Liquidity Risk
worthwhile ventures, including those that are consistent with the firm’s 
business focus, and where the returns adequately compensate for any 
risks assumed. The LC should create sufficient flexibility within the limit 
process to handle temporary exceptions; exception procedures must, of 
course, be well understood and diligently applied. Naturally, exceptions 
must be temporary and infrequent. A limited number of exceptions 
should be granted for defined periods; a semi-permanent excess is a sign 
of flawed risk management that might eventually lead to serious prob-
lems. In fact, exceptions can serve as important “early warning” indica-
tors: if a company has established prudent and realistic limits that allow 
it to handle the liquidity risks of its business under normal conditions 
and then exceeds them with increasing frequency, it might be experienc-
ing a subtle, though growing, liquidity problem. The LC should analyze 
the nature, reasons, and trends to determine whether protective action 
needs to be taken. 
 An associated point suggests that limits must be effective in constrain-
ing a firm’s risk, regardless of the amount of financial resources available. 
If limits are too large, they will fail to constrain a firm’s exposures prop-
erly; when they are smaller and exceeded from time to time (with prior 
approval), they increase awareness and elevate discussion. 
Forward commitments
and contingencies
Maximum of x$ per future time horizon
Concentration
Maximum of x% or x$ of forward
commitments and contingencies
Credit quality
Maximum of x% or x$ of forward
commitments and contingencies per
rating category
 Figure 9.7  Forward commitment and contingency limits

--- Página 230 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
215
 Other safeguards 
 In addition to the formal matrix of limits presented above, firms can 
use other tools to manage their liquidity exposures. Some of the most 
useful are the defensive interval (minimum survival period), reserves, 
mark and model verification, penalties, and external relationship 
management. 
 Defensive interval (minimum survival period) 
 We have noted earlier in the book the concept of the defensive inter-
val (and the somewhat narrower liquid coverage ratio described in 
Chapter 8), which can be considered as a minimum survival period in 
a time of stress or duress. Though the interval can be defined in various 
ways, the most basic form is simply the difference between cash needs 
and cash sources, measured in terms of days. In other words, the interval 
is the portion of cash (or liquidity buffer) that covers cash outflows on 
day 1, day 2, day 3, and so forth, without any additional actions being 
taken. By expressing the interval in time, rather than monetary value, 
a company gets a good view of the amount of time it has before it runs 
into problems. The idea of taking no further actions is important in this 
measure as it is realistic to assume that in the midst of either an endog-
enous or exogenous liquidity event, a firm will have less flexibility or 
manoeuvrability. 
 Comparing the liquidity buffer with expected net cash outflows pro-
vides an easy read on the state and direction of the defensive interval. 
A sampling of these states is highlighted in Table 9.1. An examination 
reveals the obvious: increasing the liquidity buffer and/or decreasing net 
cash outflows improves a company’s defensive interval. 
 The defensive interval can be used as a control measure by ensur-
ing that the firm maintains cash on hand sufficient to cover outflows 
over a defined period that might be agreed by the board and executive 
 Table 9.1  The liquidity buffer, net cash outflows and the defensive 
interval 
Liquidity Buffer
Net Cash Outflows
Defensive Interval
 ↑ 
 → 
 ↑ 
 ↑ 
 ↓ 
 ↑ 
 → 
 ↑ 
 ↓ 
 → 
 ↓ 
 ↑ 
 ↓ 
 → 
 ↓ 
 ↓ 
 ↑ 
 ↓

--- Página 231 ---
216 
Liquidity Risk
management, such as 15 or 30 days. Indeed, depending on the structure 
of its stress scenario process, it may wish to calibrate the defensive inter-
val limit with a specific scenario, e.g., minimum 180 days interval for a 
normal scenario, 120 days for a mild scenario, 90 days for a serious sce-
nario, and 30 days for an extreme scenario. 
 Reserves 
 Firms often establish  ex-ante reserves in order to cover possible sur-
prises from financial and operating risks. This is considered prudent 
behavior, as no firm can be completely certain that it has accounted 
properly for all of the financial, operational, legal, and regulatory 
variables that impact business. Establishing reserves by reallocating 
a portion of current earnings allows a firm to build a buffer against 
unexpected cash flows. In most jurisdictions, additions to reserves 
must follow strict accounting rules that dictate when funds can be 
reallocated or released in support of a particular loss or cash outflow. 
By enforcing such rules, authorities attempt to minimize instances of 
financial “smoothing,” or earnings manipulation . Some jurisdictions 
follow a more liberal approach and permit the establishment of hidden 
reserves through undervaluation of assets; these are not necessarily 
identifiable on the balance sheet, so their existence and use may be 
uncertain to outsiders. Reserves can therefore be viewed as pre-loss 
financing to cover an unexpected cash flow, an expected future liabil-
ity, or a shortfall arising from an asset disposal. Rather than having to 
secure specific funding for the eventuality, the reserves can be funded 
in advance of actual need as a form of self-insurance and drawn down 
as required. However, they must be considered a relatively small part 
of total funding or cash-generating requirements; accounting rules do 
not generally permit a company to reserve excessively for contingent 
events. 
 Mark and model verification 
 Ensuring that balance sheet and off-balance sheet items reflect correct 
economic value is another important aspect of the liquidity control 
process. There is little point in creating a limit framework based on the 
amount of cash that can be generated through assets or contingencies 
if the assigned values are not accurate. For instance, the firm that val-
ues its portfolio of investment securities at $100 million when they are 
actually worth $90 million, or the unencumbered factory at $1 billion 
when it is actually worth $800 million, is creating a false picture of 
its access to liquidity. Accordingly, management, working through the 
LC, internal accountants, and external auditors, must enforce proper

--- Página 232 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
217
valuation of all assets and contingencies, and thoroughly question 
any discrepancies. This exercise is particularly critical for any contract 
that lacks a transparent market (such as certain derivatives, structured 
notes, and securitizations). All models used to value complex risks or 
portfolios must be independently vetted and benchmarked before being 
employed in the valuation process; this can help minimize instances 
of error. 
 We re-emphasize a caveat presented in the last chapter: due care must 
be taken when using models to measure, value, and manage liquidity 
risks. Although good models are helpful tools, false comfort must not 
be derived from a process that is likely to be imperfect, and subject to 
instability and change in the face of stress. Care must also be taken 
regarding supervisory approval for models. While banking regulators 
often review and approve market and credit risk models – and, by exten-
sion, the embedded liquidity risks – such approval cannot be taken as a 
sign that all is well. Flawed models – coupled with inexperience, posi-
tive feedback trading cycles, and systemic risks – can exacerbate liquid-
ity pressures, a lesson learned by many during the 2007–2008 financial 
crisis. 
 Penalties 
 Behaviors can be shaped through the use of incentives and penalties. 
Incentives are well established in the corporate world: businesses and 
managers that exceed their revenue targets and performance goals are 
rewarded through higher compensation and ancillary benefits. Penalties 
are not necessarily as common, but they can be extremely useful in help-
ing a firm achieve a particular set of goals, such as the preservation of 
adequate liquidity. By creating well-designed and specifically targeted 
penalties, executives motivate managers to help the firm protect its 
liquidity. 
 For instance, we have noted that the amount of aged securities held 
for resale on a bank’s balance sheet must be minimized. Portfolios 
of securities that cannot be sold at, or near, carrying value for 60 or 
90 days are clearly not valued correctly; those that are not being resold 
must be marked down to the clearing level and sold, or should attract 
aging penalties. A bank discovering that a portfolio of supposedly liq-
uid securities remains on its books after 90 days can levy on the man-
agement team responsible for the position a charge equal to a certain 
percentage of the outstanding balance; the charge detracts from that 
business unit’s revenues, and will result in lower year-end compensa-
tion for those responsible for managing the unit. Once sold, any aging 
charges that have been accumulated can be credited back to the unit.

--- Página 233 ---
218 
Liquidity Risk
Through this process, managers have incentives to find proper clearing 
levels for the assets (or create mechanisms, such as securitizations, to 
sell the assets). 
 Similar penalties can be applied to corporate trade receivables that 
are constantly lengthening and are not being actively collected, or off-
balance sheet financial contracts that absorb too much “emergency” 
funding as a result of improper coordination between originators and 
the treasury/funding department. Naturally, if penalties are to be effec-
tive, financial controllers responsible for tracking assets must be dili-
gent about the process, and management must be strict in enforcing 
discipline. 
 External relationship management 
 While the management controls we have cited immediately above 
relate exclusively to the manner in which a firm handles its internal 
operations, external relationships are another important element of 
control. Since micro funding needs and the macro funding environ-
ment change continuously, a firm must make certain that it regularly 
Liquidity risk controls
Policies
Procedures
Asset liquidity controls
Funding liquidity controls
Joint liquidity controls
Off-balance sheet
liquidity controls
Other safeguards
Reserves
Mark/model verification
Penalties
Relationship management
 Figure 9.8  Liquidity risk controls

--- Página 234 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
219
evaluates its funding program and makes relevant adjustments. It 
should develop new financing relationships in order to create future 
flexibility. Perhaps more importantly, it should remain constructive 
in its relationships with current lenders and investors. Funding rela-
tionships are built atop strong confidence. A firm has to have strong 
communications with its key stakeholders, including debt investors, 
lenders, equity investors, and regulators. By ensuring that these rela-
tionships are mutually beneficial and productive, a firm increases its 
ability to source funds on favorable terms when it needs them, and 
gains the confidence of the regulatory community. Lenders and debt 
investors, in particular, must feel that the firm is in command of its 
financial risks generally (and liquidity risks specifically). The firm 
that neglects these stakeholders might ultimately find that its funding 
access is curtailed during difficult times. 8 Managing these relation-
ships closely in good times is thus a prudent form of  ex-ante “qualita-
tive” risk control. Ensuring that this group is also advised on a timely 
basis of potential problems or complications is equally important; 
investors and creditors that feel like they are in the information flow, 
learning first-hand about issues, may be more inclined to help solve a 
future problem. 
 Figure 9.8 summarizes the firm-wide liquidity risk controls we have 
described above. 
 Liquidity Risk Monitoring 
 Active management of liquidity through the framework of controls pre-
sented above is only possible with proper monitoring capabilities. Indeed, 
there is little point in attempting to manage liquidity risk if no mecha-
nism exists by which to monitor and report on the results. The moni-
toring process, which depends heavily on proper technical capabilities, 
should focus on asset and funding portfolios, off-balance sheet contin-
gencies, the forward balance sheet, stress scenarios, and general indica-
tors; where relevant, information and data should be compared against 
any limits that have been established. 
 Note that the technical dimension of the exercise should not be under-
estimated. In a complex, global organization, access to timely, high-
quality data to support the categories below can be an expensive and 
time-consuming effort to implement. For some industries, such as the 
financial sector, this type of technological infrastructure is an absolute 
requirement, and access to real-time (or near real-time) data is increas-
ingly important. Nevertheless, when we consider the consequences of not

--- Página 235 ---
220 
Liquidity Risk
being able to properly monitor the liquidity position, it seems a relatively 
small price to pay. 
 Asset and funding portfolios 
 Monitoring liquidity risk in the asset portfolios requires detailed informa-
tion on:
 the maturity profile of assets, especially those coming due over the 
 
●
critical 1 to 30 day period (in value amounts) 
 large or concentrated positions (value and percentage of assets) 
 
●
 aged positions (value and percentage) 
 
●
 “problem” assets (such as uncollectible receivables, bad loans, other 
 
●
non-performing assets) (value and percentage) 
 unencumbered assets (value and percentage) 
 
●
 encumbered assets (value and percentage). 
 
●
 Monitoring in the funding portfolios centers on:
 the maturity profile of liabilities, particularly those coming due over 
 
●
the critical one-month period (value) 
 committed, undrawn credit facilities (value and percentage of 
 
●
funding) 
 large and concentrated funding positions (by market, product, lender, 
 
●
region) (value and percentage) 
 status of trigger events (such as leverage, working capital, net tangible 
 
●
asset covenants) that could lead to cancellation of facilities 
 status of accounts payable terms 
 
●
 spreads on short-term funding instruments (such as CP, ECP, and 
 
●
deposits). 
 The two broad portfolios should also be reviewed and monitored in a com-
bined manner. Joint review of asset and funding portfolios (for instance 
via gaps or NFRs) can reveal the existence of mismatches (related either to 
cash inflows/outflows or maturity/duration variations). Other portfolio 
measures, such as VAR and LAVAR, should be reviewed when relevant. 
The asset and funding positions of the firm should be monitored on a 
regional, business unit, legal entity, and consolidated basis; this will pro-
vide information on whether sufficient cash flows exist within regions 
and entities, or whether any concerns exist regarding blocked funds or 
upstreaming/downstreaming. Where relevant, the reported values should 
be compared against limits that have been established by the LC.

--- Página 236 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
221
 Off-balance sheet commitments and contingencies 
 Off-balance sheet items must be monitored carefully, particularly liabili-
ties that might require future funding; since the contracts do not appear 
on the balance sheet, are unpredictable with regard to value and tim-
ing, and can be difficult to interpret, there is a risk that future liquidity 
demands might be overlooked, leading to one of the cash flow surprises 
we referenced in Part I. Monitoring should be detailed enough to reveal 
cash inflows and cash outflows arising from:
 option exercises and other derivative contract settlements 
 
●
 revolving credit draw-downs 
 
●
 lease payments/cancellations 
 
●
 guarantee and standby letter of credit receipts or payments 
 
●
 contingent receipts or payments (including recourse participations). 
 
●
 Forward balance sheet 
 Although monitoring the forward balance sheet is a mix of actual, prob-
able, and unlikely, it can reveal important information about future cash 
inflows and outflows. The construction of the forward balance sheet is 
based on assumptions regarding events that might or might not occur, 
meaning different degrees of conservatism may be applied. For instance, 
reporting may include scenarios that depict cash flows and balance sheet 
items based on 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent prob-
ability of exercise, draw-down, or triggering of the contingent event. 
Alternatively, a firm may choose to segregate contracts that are certain 
to come into effect at some future point (that is, 100 percent probability), 
then weight all remaining contracts against an estimated market-driven 
likelihood of occurrence. In either case, the range of probability-driven 
scenarios provides a sense of the possible impact on firm-wide liquidity, 
and must be monitored. 
 Stress scenarios 
 Monitoring stress scenarios is the practical end-result of the measurement 
process described in the last chapter, and it helps a firm prepare for a cata-
strophic event. A regular (i.e., monthly or quarterly) creation of prede-
fined stress scenarios, such as those we have already described, can help 
reveal whether a firm’s liquidity profile grows more robust or fragile with 
the onset of improbable, though not impossible, events. Crystallizing 
such information through standard reporting allows the LC and manage-
ment to take defensive action where necessary. As with forward balance

--- Página 237 ---
222 
Liquidity Risk
sheet reporting, stress scenario reporting is based on a set of assumptions 
that might or might not occur. Despite this uncertainty, the nature of the 
firm’s liquidity profile under a stress event must be part of the monitor-
ing process. 
 It is worth noting that construction of a forward balance sheet for 
monitoring purposes is different from creating one for stress scenario 
purposes. The former is a probability-weighted cash flow analysis, under 
normal market conditions, of transactions that are contractually in 
place (such as the draw-down of an existing credit facility, the consum-
mation of the sale of certain assets, or the exercise of a purchased or 
sold option). The latter is a cash flow impact analysis of mild to extreme 
market scenarios. The two tools are complementary, but unique in the 
information that they convey. In particular, the stress scenario results 
are typically based on low-probability “disaster” events (such as a repeat 
of a 1998 or 2007–2008 market dislocation, placement of currency con-
vertibility controls in an important local marketplace, freezing of capital 
within a country, destruction of a plant that is not adequately covered 
by insurance, severe credit downgrade by the rating agencies, or regula-
tory changes prohibiting a legal entity from upstreaming cash to the 
parent); results must therefore be used and interpreted with caution. 
 General indicators 
 While many of the items we have discussed above form the core of a 
liquidity monitoring process, certain other financial and anecdotal mar-
ket indicators can also reveal important liquidity information. A regular 
process of monitoring such indicators can be good corporate practice, 
and might even provide the additional reaction time that is essential in 
attempting to manage through a liquidity crunch. 
 
 
●Growth in risk: a firm that is becoming riskier in its operations (whether 
from financial or operating risk) might be increasing its illiquidity 
should events move against it. For instance, the bank or company that 
assumes more market risk or credit risk might suffer greater losses in 
the event of volatility or default, and the losses might create additional 
cash flow pressures. 
 
 
●Decline in asset quality: for financial institutions in particular, a marked 
decline in asset quality (measurable through past due loans, non-ac-
crual loans, and other non-performing assets) might signal the need 
for greater credit reserves. The lack of income/cash flow from loan 
arrangements, together with any increase in reserves, can squeeze 
available liquidity. The same might be true, albeit to a lesser degree, 
with corporate receivables.

--- Página 238 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
223
 
 
●Growth in assets: while most firms seek to expand their assets steadily 
in order to support increased production, a sharp spike in asset growth, 
particularly when it must be funded through short-term liabilities, can 
create liquidity pressures. 
 
 
●Erosion of revenues/earnings: a firm that is consistently earning less than 
it projects, or that suffers outright losses, is no longer generating the 
cash flows it needs to fund operations. This can increase the demand 
on the funding program and decrease the amount of financing avail-
able for future needs. 
 
 
●Changes in financial terms/relationships: the financial terms and rela-
tionships a firm maintains with its creditors, suppliers, and investors 
must always be monitored for signs of change. Any deterioration in 
financing terms can signal potential problems and must be addressed 
as a matter of priority. These can include changes in bank credit and/
or trade/supplier terms (such as new security/collateral requirements, 
smaller facility/deal size, shorter maturities, and higher fees or rates), a 
decrease in correspondent bank relationships, a shrinking of the inves-
tor base in short-term liabilities, and so forth. 
 
 
●Increased withdrawals of  short-term funds: any instance where a firm’s 
traditional short-term funding sources are withdrawn through explicit 
cancellation, early redemption, or lack of rollover must be treated very 
seriously. Although such withdrawals might be institution-specific or 
industry-wide, the ultimate impact is generally the same: increased 
short-term funding pressures. 
 
 
●Increased market news/ rumors: in an age where information circulates 
freely and rapidly, a firm must monitor market-moving news and 
rumors continuously. Any information that reflects negatively on the 
company or its financial position must be addressed without hesita-
tion (as we shall note in the next chapter); failure to do so can lead to 
a rapid escalation of problems, such as funding withdrawal or lack of 
rollovers. 
 
 
●Changes in financial market measures: aspects of every public firm 
can be measured and monitored in the marketplace for change. This 
includes sensitive indicators such as credit rating watch status, credit 
spreads, and stock price. If a firm’s financial market measures are 
trending in a negative direction (for instance, falling stock price or 
widening credit spreads), the reasons must be ascertained as quickly 
as possible and defensive action should be considered. Steadily weak-
ening financial market measures, whether or not they accurately 
reflect a firm’s operating state, can fuel negative press and generate 
market rumors; these, as we have already noted, can lead to the with-
drawal of liquidity.

--- Página 239 ---
224 
Liquidity Risk
 Monitoring goals 
 Monitoring of assets, funding, joint cash flows, off-balance sheet commit-
ments, forward balance sheet, and stress tests should reflect point-in-time 
snapshots to provide a current picture of liquidity status. These snapshots 
must be supplemented by trend information so that management can 
determine whether the firm is becoming more or less liquid over time. 
Information must also be specifically linked back to limits and the liquid-
ity risk mandate, to ensure that the firm’s philosophy is being followed 
and resources are being allocated properly. This is an essential part of the 
“feedback loop” and informs directors and executives about the efficacy 
of the mandate. 
 The end result in any reporting endeavor should be the communi-
cation of relevant and actionable information to directors, executives, 
and senior finance, risk management, and business management pro-
fessionals with direct or indirect responsibility for generating or miti-
gating liquidity risks. Information should reflect legal, business unit, 
and regional views to accommodate the needs of multiple users from 
a single source of data. The LC should take a leading role in designing 
information mechanisms and ensuring that the information generated 
becomes the basis for meaningful dialogue and action. The degree of 
reporting frequency and information granularity is likely to be institu-
tion- and function-specific; in general, however, the LC should keep 
directors apprised of the firm’s liquidity profile, changes, and trends on 
a quarterly basis. Senior executives should be advised at least monthly, 
and more often as market circumstances warrant. Risk, finance, and 
business executives must review reports on a daily basis to ensure con-
tinuous scrutiny of what will undoubtedly be a dynamically changing 
picture of cash flows. 
 Similar information must be provided to regulators and other key 
stakeholders (such as shareholders (via the annual and interim financial 
reports), lending banks, and rating agencies). 9 Information such as the 
overall liquidity governance framework, the general metrics used to meas-
ure and control liquidity risks (including stress scenarios), the nature of 
the contingency funding plan, the status and availability of committed 
credit facilities, the approach taken to constructing the liquidity ware-
house, and the state of key ratio measures (and associated compliance 
with any minimum requirements) can be of significant comfort and use 
to stakeholders and should be conveyed on a timely basis. Indeed, the 
firm that is willing to distribute more information instils confidence and 
builds stronger stakeholder relationships; the firm that opts for opac-
ity and “black box” approaches may find it is cut off in times of crisis.

--- Página 240 ---
Controlling Liquidity Risk 
225
Assets
Funding
Off-balance
sheet activities
Forward 
balance sheet
Stress
scenarios
General 
indicators
Legal entity 1
exposures, limits
Legal entity 2
exposures, limits
Legal entity n
exposures, limits
Region 1
exposures, limits
Region 2
exposures, limits
Region n
exposures, limits
Business unit 1
exposures, limits
Business unit 2
exposures, limits
Business unit n
exposures, limits
Consolidated view
exposures, limits
Summary information 
for stakeholders
 Figure 9.9  Dimensions of liquidity monitoring 
Figure 9.9 summarizes the spectrum of liquidity monitoring that a firm 
may consider in its operations. 
 Technical capabilities 
 As noted, monitoring and reporting of liquidity risks is only possible 
in the large organization with the proper technological infrastructure. 
Liquidity risks that can appear across business, product, legal, and/or geo-
graphic divisions must be captured within a robust data management 
and technology environment. This demands a uniform mechanism for 
the collection and aggregation of data, along with the ability to use that 
information to measure risks and project stress scenarios. Specific modules 
are needed to report on ledger balances, fails, contract settlements, cash 
inflows and outflows, loans, placements, and other funding activity. 
 Technical capabilities must be sufficient to produce quality informa-
tion in a timely manner. Executives using the information to manage 
the firm must have confidence in the integrity of the results and must 
be able to access the data quickly. This is particularly true in a crisis

--- Página 241 ---
226 
Liquidity Risk
situation – a firm’s leadership cannot afford to discover that key informa-
tion is missing from the reporting process, or that the aggregation of data 
is delayed. Indeed, high-quality, intraday data access is becoming increas-
ingly important. Investment in the technology that permits effective 
reporting must be considered a worthwhile use of corporate resources, as 
it may help avoid more serious problems in the future; this is particularly 
true in instances involving crisis management, as we discuss in the next 
chapter.

--- Página 242 ---
227
 10 
 Liquidity Crisis Management 
 A firm operating under normal market circumstances will be able to 
rely on its mandate, policies, and limits to control the liquidity expo-
sures inherent in its business. If these mechanisms are structured prop-
erly and followed diligently, the financial impact of the exposures should 
remain manageable. However, as noted in the last chapter, there may 
still be instances when endogenous or exogenous factors overwhelm the 
firm, giving rise to the possibility of greater financial problems and even 
instances of financial distress. In such extraordinary cases a firm must 
immediately commence its liquidity crisis management program. For 
instance, if during “good times” the company’s goal is to maximize earn-
ings, we can see how the goal changes as the liquidity situation deterio-
rates: in a mild crisis the focus turns to obtaining additional funding at a 
reasonable cost, in a serious crisis it might change to obtaining additional 
funding at any cost and implementing additional defensive measures, 
and in an extreme crisis the focus is to take any and all actions that can 
ensure survival – including the points we describe below. Any thought of 
maximizing earnings is temporarily abandoned during the crisis phase. 
 A successful crisis management program allows a company to deal with 
the dislocation and eventually normalize its operations at a minimum 
of cost; an unsuccessful program – or indeed the lack of any program at 
all – can lead to complications including, in the most dire circumstances, 
liquidity spirals and insolvency. In this chapter we consider the scope 
and focus of liquidity crisis management,  ex ante market access, defensive 
measures, communications, trigger events, disaster recovery, and plan 
testing. 
 Scope and Focus 
 Although liquidity crisis management is institution-specific, crisis pro-
grams typically have the same end goals: ensuring sufficiency of cash 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 243 ---
228 
Liquidity Risk
to continue operating, and limiting reputational and financial damage 
so that operations can be normalized as quickly as possible. A crisis pro-
gram formalizes a firm’s objectives with regard to sourcing, managing, 
and maintaining liquid assets and funding during a stress period. In most 
cases this can be accomplished by focusing on three broad areas:
 
 
●Ex-ante market access 
 Defensive measures 
 
●
 Communications. 
 
●
 We consider each of these, independently and in light of general dis-
aster recovery and contingency plan testing, at greater length below. 
Before doing so, however, it is important to review overarching scope and 
focus. 
 A crisis management program should serve to protect a company dur-
ing difficult times. The essential point is for the firm to accumulate and 
preserve enough cash to continue operations. Prioritizing actions and 
modifying behaviors can help accomplish this goal. Accordingly, a proper 
program must be developed in advance of any dislocation; history has 
demonstrated that simply reacting to a crisis on an  ad hoc basis as events 
unfold is unlikely to be successful. That said, every crisis is unique in 
some way, so some degree of “reactive flexibility” must be built into the 
plan, allowing for adjustment or “fine tuning” of the existing plan as 
events unfold. If every aspect of a plan is followed in a perfectly strict and 
rigid manner, mistakes may be made or opportunities may be lost. 
 Although a crisis plan is generally driven from the top down and is 
a reflection of a firm’s consolidated liquidity needs, there are instances 
when separate plans have to be created for individual operating units in 
order to deal with specific needs, issues, and restrictions in the local envi-
ronment. If this is necessary, plans must still be properly coordinated; we 
have already noted that the liquidity position of one unit might have a 
significant impact on that of another unit, so coordination is vital. 
 Executives must drive the crisis management process as a priority – 
both in the development stage and in actual implementation. Directors 
and executives must lead the way in creating a plan, and should be ready 
to activate it when advised by senior financial officers. Once in motion, it 
must become the focus of their efforts, as survival of the company might 
depend on whether matters are handled decisively. As we shall note later, 
the program should be thoroughly tested in advance of use. Indeed, such 
“dress rehearsals” should be a matter of regular review to ensure that all 
processes function as intended and all variables related to market access, 
defensive measures, and communications remain relevant. Testing should

--- Página 244 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
229
be comprehensive and include drawing down on backup revolving credit 
facilities, selling a portion of the liquidity warehouse, entering the repur-
chase agreement market (where possible and relevant), issuing a tranche 
of long-term notes from an MTN program, preparing draft communiques 
for stakeholders, and so forth. 
 Effective crisis management relies heavily on clear “command and con-
trol.” In normal operating conditions many managers are likely to be part 
of the liquidity risk management process, each contributing experience 
and expertise and enjoying a certain amount of authority. This is espe-
cially true for firms that opt for a decentralized risk management process. 
During the crisis management period much of this delegated authority 
needs to be redirected towards a very small team that can keep tight con-
trol of the process and guide human and financial resources as needed. In 
practice, a firm may find it beneficial to concentrate authority in a liquid-
ity crisis management team (LCMT) comprised, for example, of the:
 CEO or COO 
 
●
 CFO 
 
●
 treasurer 
 
●
 heads of relevant business divisions 
 
●
 head of risk management 
 
●
 head of operations/settlements 
 
●
 head of legal/compliance 
 
●
 Liquidity Committee (LC, that is, the professionals responsible for the 
 
●
ongoing management of the company’s liquidity profile, as noted in 
the last chapter). 
 In addition, each member should have a designated “backup.” This small 
team should be able to convene quickly and coordinate all of the neces-
sary actions on behalf of the firm. Indeed, the LCMT must be prepared to 
put in motion a time-sensitive plan that addresses, in order of priority, the 
specific tasks that need to be performed: those that must be completed 
within 24 and 48 hours, those that must be in place within one and two 
weeks, and so forth. As part of the command and control chain, a policy 
of temporary recentralization, discussed below, should be enacted. 
 A key element of the plan must center on financing alternatives. In 
order to fulfil the primary goal of cash sufficiency, the LCMT, through 
the treasury and finance groups, must be aware of the firm’s short- and 
medium-term cash flows, and how these can be accommodated dur-
ing the crisis period. Indeed, we indicated in Chapter 8 that cash flows 
should be stress tested to see how they change during a crisis period; this 
is especially critical when optionable or cancellable liabilities form part

--- Página 245 ---
230 
Liquidity Risk
of the funding plan (while this involves assumptions about the behav-
ior of trade credit suppliers, investors, depositors, or lenders, “worst case” 
behavioral changes are often a worthwhile starting point in the analysis 
exercise). We have also noted that stress testing should incorporate assess-
ments of asset pledge or disposal value that might be obtained during 
difficult times. 
 With information on anticipated cash flows in hand, a prioritized 
action plan can be developed and put into motion; importantly, every 
aspect of the plan must be clear and actionable. Although the plan will 
be institution-specific and evolve over time (as the firm’s business, market 
access, and cash flows change), an example might be as follows:
 Modifying liabilities (such as drawing down bank lines even if not cur-
 
●
rently needed; extending maturities by, e.g., issuing MTNs or bonds; 
and reducing CP and other short-term debt) 
 Suspending discretionary or non-essential cash outflows 
 
●
 Pledging assets from the liquidity warehouse or other accounts 
 
●
 Neutralizing other financial risks through hedging 
 
●
 Selling marketable assets from the liquidity warehouse 
 
●
 Reducing/slowing growth in other assets (for example, slowing new 
 
●
business and shrinking the balance sheet) 
 Reducing cash outflows and net working capital (to the extent possible, 
 
●
without damaging business relationships irreparably) 1 
 Delaying capital investments and other discretionary “cash outflow” 
 
●
investments 
 Crystallizing off-balance sheet opportunities (such as securitization 
 
●
and option exercises) 
 Selling hold-to-maturity investments and non-strategic fixed assets or 
 
●
business units 
 Communicating actively with all internal and external stakeholders. 
 
●
 We shall consider several of these issues in greater detail below. We stress 
at this point, however, that fundamental restructuring of the corporate 
balance sheet can take time. The best time to do such a “clean up” is 
before, rather than during, a crisis. Accordingly, management must 
always be on the lookout for potential areas of weakness as part of the 
daily operations described in the last chapter. To be sure, changes can be 
made at the margin as needed during a crisis, though the end result may 
be greater short-term losses or enterprise value destruction. 
 It is worth noting that the plan framework noted above should be enacted 
for the consolidated group company so that there is a degree of centrali-
zation and uniformity. However, in order to avoid instances of trapped 
liquidity or other legal barriers, each substantive legal entity within a

--- Página 246 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
231
group should have its own version of the plan in place and ready to use. 
Coordination with headquarters should then follow as a matter of course. 
 Ex-Ante  Market Access 
 A company experiencing a severe liquidity squeeze must be prepared to 
take all actions that will help ensure its survival. This means it must be 
able to sell or pledge liquid assets, increase long-term liabilities (and pos-
sibly short-term liabilities if this is the only viable option), decrease long-
term assets, and defer non-essential cash flows. Each one of these actions 
demands proper access to markets. 
 From a liability perspective, a firm can develop appropriate  ex-ante mar-
ket access by making sure that its funding program is diversified, secure, 
and deep. Any program a firm creates should obviously be available for 
use during normal and crisis conditions. As noted in the last chapter, a 
firm must develop a portfolio of funding options that spans a variety of 
products, markets, and providers; this diversification helps ensure that 
the firm is not overly exposed to a single source of funds and can select 
from alternative products/conduits at any point in time. The funding pro-
gram must also be secure; a company entering into a difficult financial 
period cannot afford to discover that facilities it believes are committed 
are actually subject to cancellation or modification. Finally, the funding 
program must be deep enough to give the firm access to the resources 
it requires under a variety of stress scenarios. Creating a diversified and 
secure funding program that accounts for only a fraction of what might 
be required in difficult times will do little to avert more significant prob-
lems; the program must be large enough to accommodate all of the cash 
outflows that might become apparent during market stress. 
 From an asset perspective, a firm creates  ex-ante market access by estab-
lishing a liquidity warehouse that is specifically isolated from the rest of 
its corporate operations; this decreases the likelihood that a firm will have 
insufficient cash access during times of crisis. Indeed, and as we already 
know, a properly structured liquidity warehouse reduces a firm’s reli-
ance on the actions of short-term investors, depositors, or creditors – thus 
reinstating some amount of control within the firm itself. The liquidity 
warehouse is, of course, a partial drain on resources and will not contrib-
ute in the short run to enterprise value maximization. Nevertheless, the 
warehouse can be viewed as a valuable liquidity option, exercisable in the 
event of a true financial dislocation. As we have indicated, the portfolio 
must be comprised of high quality, saleable instruments that retain their 
market value (particularly during flight-to-quality cycles), and should be 
appropriately diversified across obligors and markets. The liquidity ware-
house should not be used as a “dumping ground” for unwanted assets, or

--- Página 247 ---
232 
Liquidity Risk
“raided” and put to use in other endeavors (e.g., selling marketable securi-
ties to invest in fixed assets). By following these simple rules, a firm ensures 
that the pool is available to generate cash through disposal or pledging 
precisely when needed, in an amount dictated by a true carrying value. 
 Defensive Measures 
 Recentralization 
 When a firm moves into a crisis management mode, the actions taken by 
the LCMT are defensive, meaning that recentralizing authority is advis-
able. Any delegated authorities granted to those responsible for managing a 
business, product, or region (including the financial dimensions that gen-
erate or absorb liquidity) should be temporarily revoked so that actions can 
be properly coordinated from the center. This does not mean that those 
managing businesses or regions cannot form part of the crisis management 
process; indeed, they must, as they are likely to be intimately familiar with 
important information that can impact the firm’s liquidity. And, as noted 
above, there may be instances where a legal entity within a group must 
take matters directly into its own hands in order to comply with local law/
regulation. But, apart from such exceptional circumstances, their role must 
temporarily be limited to one of communication and guidance rather than 
action or decision making. The LCMT responsible for the process must 
use business and regional managers in any way necessary to see the firm 
through difficult times, but it must retain decision-making authority. 
 Funding management 
 In most instances the LCMT should expect to turn to the funding pro-
gram as a priority; this is logical since the liability portfolio always 
provides the first line of defence in generating cash (apart from flows 
generated by core operations). Crisis-based funding management centers 
on prioritizing draw-downs, extending funding maturities, and suspend-
ing non-essential cash flows. 
 Prioritizing funding  draw-downs 
 A firm in a crisis mode must make every attempt to accumulate a suffi-
cient cash buffer in order to carry on with its operations. Accordingly, it 
should be prepared to quickly draw down on its credit and funding facili-
ties. The process begins by prioritizing funding access: a firm must deter-
mine which facilities to access, when, and in what amount, in order to 
secure the cash it needs. This brings us back to a point we introduced in 
Chapter 3 regarding the differences between theoretical and actual amal-
gamated sources of liquidity. Although the full complement of theoretical

--- Página 248 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
233
sources of liquidity might be available and accessible to a firm during 
normal market conditions, only the actual sources of liquidity that are 
still available matter when a crisis strikes. From a liability perspective, the 
firm’s contingency program should discount, heavily or completely, any 
theoretical funding sources that are likely to disappear during stressed 
market conditions; funding prioritization should exclude liquidity sources 
that are not absolutely undoubted. 
 In most crisis situations a firm is unlikely to call on all of its pre-ar-
ranged financing facilities simultaneously, meaning it must prioritize 
draw-down. Prioritization might be a function of a firm’s relationship 
with lenders/investors, its desire for a particular type/class of funding 
(such as floating versus fixed rate, senior versus subordinated, onshore 
versus onshore, domestic versus foreign currency), its access to intrac-
ompany or group funds, and its need for specific maturities (as noted 
immediately below). It might also relate to the relative cost of access, the 
total amount of funds available in a market or product, and the speed at 
which funds can be accessed. (In fact, a firm must be extremely sensitive 
to the notification period required for draw-down, as certain facilities/
products incorporate multi-day delays; crucial time might therefore be 
lost.) Regardless of the specific criteria used, the important point is for 
the LCMT to implement a clear road map regarding funding draw-downs. 
Box 10.1 provides a simplified illustration of such a road map. (In prac-
tice the road map is likely to be much more extensive and detailed and 
include amount, rate, and currency draw-down options based on remain-
ing availability, investor appetite, market levels, the shape of the yield 
curve, and so forth.) Once prioritized, funding should occur automati-
cally via the treasury or finance department, so that no time is wasted. 
 Extending liability maturities 
 When a firm enters a crisis mode, it must attempt to reshape its funding 
profile. This generally means trying to replace short-term, credit/market-
sensitive liabilities with longer-term funding. From a practical perspective 
this may involve drawing down 6- or 12-month bank revolvers, and issu-
ing two- or three-year MTNs or EMTNs, while allowing 7-, 14-, or 30-day 
CP and payables to roll off. In a normal positive yield curve environ-
ment, this will lead to an immediate rise in funding costs, and a resulting 
decrease in enterprise value. Nevertheless, it is an important defensive 
measure that relieves short-term funding pressures that are so often the 
source of major liquidity problems. Of course, it is not always possible 
for a firm in a crisis mode to term out its funding; medium-term capital 
(via the loan or capital markets) might be relatively scarce unless stable, 
 ex-ante arrangements are in place. Where possible, however, a firm should 
attempt to extend maturities.

--- Página 249 ---
234 
Liquidity Risk
 Box 10.1  Summary funding draw-down road map 
Company ABC:  contingency funding priorities 
 Bank XYZ facility 
 
 ■ $100 million, three-year, fixed rate 
 
 ■ $100 million, five-year, fixed rate 
 Bank ABC facility 
 
 ■ $100 million, five-year, floating rate, swapped into fixed rate 
 MTN program 
 
 ■ $200 million, two-year, fixed rate 
 EMTN program 
 
 ■ €300 million, three-year, fixed rate, 50 percent remaining in €, 
50 percent swapped into $ 
 Bank TUV facility 
 
 ■ $300 million, seven-year, fixed rate 
 Private placement 
 
 ■ ¥10 billion, three-year, private placement, floating rate 
 Suspending cash flows 
 When preserving cash is an overriding corporate goal, non-essential cash 
outflows must be suspended. Discretionary payments that can safely be 
eliminated, postponed, or reduced without damaging enterprise value or 
reputation should be curtailed as a matter of priority. During the pre-crisis 
planning stage, the LCMT should obtain information on the firm’s near 
and medium-term cash flow commitments, segregated into discretionary 
and non-discretionary components. Non-discretionary cash flows typi-
cally give a firm little flexibility; in most instances these are contractual 
cash flows associated with planned investments, capital expenditures, 
raw material/resource acquisition, debt and lease servicing, and so forth, 
and cannot be suspended. Discretionary flows, in contrast, allow a firm 
to manage cash in relation to the current financial position. If a firm can 
curtail a previously planned investment or capital expenditure, or if it 
can quickly close down a business unit with negative cash flows, it must 
consider doing so. Cash that can be preserved while in the crisis mode 
strengthens the overall financial position during a critical time period. 
 That said, a firm should minimize or avoid any actions that might 
permanently impair enterprise value or reputation. For instance, even if

--- Página 250 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
235
a contract allows a firm to cancel a long-standing project with another 
partner, due consideration must be given to whether this is the best 
course of action; cancellation might damage the relationship and jeop-
ardize future business opportunities. Equally, the suspension of divi-
dends on common stock or non-cumulative preferred stock, although a 
cash saving measure, is generally a drastic action that sends a negative 
signal to the investment community. While cash is preserved, dividend 
suspension can cause the value of the firm’s stock to drop and remain 
depressed for an extended period of time. The costs and benefits must 
therefore be thoroughly analyzed before any decision is taken by execu-
tive leadership (including board directors, who are typically responsible 
for dividend policy). 
 Asset management 
 A firm in a crisis mode must still fund its assets in order to remain a 
viable operation. That said, the program must focus on opportunities to 
decrease the amount of assets requiring funding: that is, reducing, or 
deleveraging, the balance sheet. While shrinking the balance sheet dur-
ing a crisis is not necessarily the easiest course of action (as at least some 
companies have discovered in the past), there are instances where it can 
be done successfully, at a minimum of cost. The strategy must therefore 
at least be explored. 
 While liquid assets that are coming due can be allowed to roll off, sold 
at carrying value, or pledged against new funding, and are thus unlikely 
to present a problem, less liquid assets that are only marginally produc-
tive might represent an unnecessary funding burden. A company should 
identify, on an  ex-ante basis, assets that can be sold during a crisis phase 
in order to relieve associated financing pressure. The same applies to new 
business: if a firm actively generates receivables or inventories as an ele-
ment of its operations, it may wish to reduce business, and the assets 
that are generated, in order to temporarily decrease its funding require-
ments. Business levels can be rebuilt once the crisis has passed and the 
firm is in a better position to finance its portfolio of less liquid, or illiquid, 
assets (including those with less attractive returns). Naturally, decreasing 
earning assets, even temporarily, must be handled with care, as these are 
the very investments, receivables, inventories, and plant and equipment 
that generate a firm’s enterprise value. If the process is handled improp-
erly, it might be difficult and expensive for a firm to recover value once 
the liquidity crisis has passed. Note that the same consideration must be 
given to off-balance sheet contracts; where these have the potential to 
result in cash outflows, they should be reduced.

--- Página 251 ---
236 
Liquidity Risk
 Risk hedging 
 In Part I we noted the close relationship that exists between on- and 
off-balance sheet credit, market, and liquidity risks. It is generally true 
that a firm that is heavily exposed to market and credit risks directly or 
indirectly generates a significant amount of liquidity risk. Accordingly, 
one of the most important defensive moves of any crisis management 
program centers on neutralizing, or minimizing, the credit and mar-
ket risks impacting the business. By doing so, a firm reduces the chance 
that its liquidity profile will be further pressured in the event of new or 
incremental risk challenges. This is especially true when we consider sys-
temic dislocations, which can produce a larger amount of credit failures/
defaults and asset flight-to-quality. A firm’s crisis management program 
must therefore focus on the nature of market and credit risks at the time 
the crisis plan is invoked, and determine which can be hedged through 
offsetting transactions or derivatives in order to ease cash flow pressures. 
 Communications 
 Information voids can be extremely damaging and actually exacerbate a 
negative situation, meaning external and internal communications are 
vital. From an external perspective, stakeholders that have a vested inter-
est in a company, its financial condition, and future prospects, need to be 
kept apprised of developing events. This is particularly true with credit-
sensitive relationships when the spectre of default might be increasing. 
Accordingly, the contingency program must include robust and effective 
external communication mechanisms. Management must take steps to 
ensure a regular flow of information to debt and equity investors, lenders, 
regulators, credit rating agencies, and the financial media at large, and to 
accept and respond to inquiries as soon as they are received. Particular 
attention must be paid to regulatory queries. Stakeholders who receive 
timely and detailed information directly from a company on its financial 
status and plans are less likely to create, or fall victim to, rumors and sen-
sationalized accounts of problems – which, as we have noted, can inten-
sify liquidity pressures and even fuel liquidity spirals. 
 Communicating internally is equally important. Employees and man-
agers that drive a firm’s business do not want to learn about potential 
problems through rumors or gossip; they have a vested interest in the 
firm by virtue of their status as employees (and often shareholders) and 
must be given relevant information about the state of affairs during the 
crisis period. But communication must flow towards management as well. 
Managers operating business units or regional offices often have valuable 
and unique information regarding the firm’s condition that may affect

--- Página 252 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
237
its ability to manage the situation; mechanisms such as daily conference 
calls or message repositories must be established to ensure that the infor-
mation is delivered to the LCMT on a timely basis. 
 Invoking and Terminating the Program 
 A crisis management program should be invoked through a process built 
around objective triggers from external measures and subjective input 
from executives and managers. A firm must identify early warning meas-
ures that reflect changing liquidity circumstances; these should be supple-
mented by anecdotal evidence from the marketplace and management’s 
interpretation of such facts (such as difficulties with rollovers, widen-
ing spreads, reluctance by lenders to renew long-term facilities, increased 
reliance on brokers to source funds). Early warning measures should be 
agreed in advance by executives and the financial controllers responsible 
for compiling statistics, and should form part of the regular monitoring 
process detailed in the last chapter. When the objective measures are trig-
gered, or reach pre-defined warning thresholds, the LCMT must quickly 
obtain supplemental qualitative information from the marketplace on 
the nature of the liquidity disruption or pressure. The combination of 
objective and subjective inputs should be sufficient for authorized parties 
to determine the need to invoke the program. It is important that the 
process be sufficiently automated that response can be quick, but not so 
automated, or bereft of human judgment and experience, that it becomes 
a rote exercise that is subject to misinterpretation or misuse. 
 Terminating a crisis program should also be a defined event. The 
LCMT should use the same  ex-ante early warning measures noted above 
to determine whether the firm is poised to return to a normal operating 
environment – one where it can safely devolve duties back to the line/
region, rebuild business, replenish the liquidity warehouse, reshape fund-
ing maturities, strengthen the balance sheet, and so forth. The process 
can again consist of objective metrics, such as a return to the liquidity 
risk measures that existed prior to the crisis, along with subjective input 
and analysis from market sources, investors, and lenders. In practice this 
might take one or two quarters to achieve; lender and investor confi-
dence – as reflected through credit spread movements, ease of rollovers, 
and access to fresh funds – is unlikely to occur in a matter of days or 
weeks, particularly if the firm has been through a wrenching event. Once 
the crisis program is terminated, the LC and internal/external auditors 
should examine it in detail to determine whether there are any points of 
weakness or areas for improvement. Adjustments should be made to the 
program in advance of any future re-enactment.

--- Página 253 ---
238 
Liquidity Risk
 We note from the discussion above that a company that is attempting 
to defend, and ultimately rebuild, its liquidity position whilst in crisis 
management mode has at its disposal a number of tools. Let us combine 
all of this material in a simple example. Assume, for instance, that a 
mid-size industrial company is trying to defend its cash position after 
posting several years of losses and being presented with some unex-
pected legal payments. The company’s market indicators begin to reflect 
a weakening (e.g., lower stock price, wider credit spreads), and at least 
two large institutional investors in the company’s debt have indicated 
that they may be reluctant to roll over their obligations when they come 
due. With management aware of the serious nature of the situation and 
the growing liquidity squeeze, it gathers its crisis team to enact a con-
tingency plan developed some years earlier. Since its immediate interest 
is in preserving cash so that it can continue to fund its core business 
operations, the crisis team issues the following directives to its respon-
sible line managers:
 Sell unused raw material back to suppliers to both minimize financing 
 
●
costs and to raise immediate cash 
 Review accounts receivable and take aggressive collection actions with 
 
●
regard to any delayed or delinquent accounts 
 Analyze accounts payable and deal with suppliers to obtain better 
 
●
financing terms 
 Pool cash from its various divisions into a central hub where move-
 
●
ment can be more effectively tracked 
 Postpone discretionary, non-essential investments/projects that absorb 
 
●
cash 
 Reduce expenses through quick, aggressive and disciplined cost 
 
●
 cutting 
 Sell non-essential capital assets 
 
●
 Rationalize business/product lines that are cash-flow negative 
 
●
 Engage in sale-and-leaseback deal on corporate headquarters 
 
●
 Draw-down on committed bank facilities 
 
●
 Extend maturities on short-term liabilities out to the medium-term as 
 
●
the markets allow 
 Communicate details of the liquidity plan to key lenders and select 
 
●
institutional investors, as well as its suppliers, key customers and the 
credit rating agencies. 
 Each of these actions can help put the company in a stronger liquid-
ity position. To be sure, some can be enacted within days, while others 
may take several weeks (or even months) to complete. However, all have

--- Página 254 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
239
the end goal of shoring up liquidity. Once this occurs, the company can 
“stand down” from crisis mode and will be able to resume its normal core 
operations – hopefully expanding business in a prudent, focused, and 
profitable manner. 
 Disaster Recovery 
 In an era where institutions rely heavily on technology to manage their 
businesses, it is important to ensure that appropriate disaster recovery 
plans are in place. Such plans typically center on establishment of remote 
business locations, computer, network, and data redundancy, and com-
munications backup. In order not to jeopardize business opportunities, 
franchise value, financial commitments, or reputation, a firm must be 
able to resume its business without pause in the event it becomes the sub-
ject of a catastrophic disaster that interrupts normal operations. Indeed, 
the topic is so important that the entire discipline of disaster recovery is 
taking hold in the corporate world, and more firms are engaged in seri-
ous consideration, design, and implementation of disaster recovery plans. 
While these plans are typically broad-based and intended to cover the 
widest possible scope of corporate operations, the very liquidity contin-
gency plan that a firm develops must form a leading part of the exercise. 
While cash access is always vital, it becomes even more vital during a 
disaster: cash availability in the midst of general or specific disruptions 
must be undoubted. If a firm can arrange its liquidity program so that 
it has simple, efficient, and secure access to funds as it attempts to cope 
with other operating interruptions caused by a catastrophic event, then 
it mitigates a risk that might otherwise create financial distress. This is 
especially true when a disaster is broad, impacting an entire sector, coun-
try, or system. 
 Testing the Plan 
 The time to determine whether a crisis management plan is working as 
anticipated is not in the midst of a company-specific or sector-wide crisis, 
but before it is required. Accordingly, a firm’s contingency plan must be 
tested during normal market conditions to ensure that all aspects func-
tion as intended. Testing should be comprehensive, covering all parts of 
the plan outlined above, including market access, funding, hedging, and 
other defensive measures, as well as internal/external communications. 
Simulated events should be conducted in order to determine whether 
responsible parties are effective in managing their portions of the contin-
gency plan, communicating with others, and directing resources. Such

--- Página 255 ---
240 
Liquidity Risk
“dress rehearsals” can demonstrate vulnerabilities and reveal areas for 
improvement – in advance of an actual crisis. 
 Part of plan testing should also focus on real-life exercises, such as 
drawing down bank facilities, issuing new CP, selling a portion of the 
investment portfolio, and so forth. Indeed, actually drawing down bank 
facilities that serve primarily as a backup is a sensitive topic. Some firms 
are loath to do so, even in a “trial mode,” as they are reluctant to send 
the wrong signal or have use of the facilities misinterpreted. However, 
since backup lines are such an essential component of the contingency 
plan, they must be tested periodically. No stigma should be attached to 
draw-downs of backup or emergency revolvers – firms must be able to test 
their facilities without sending a negative signal. Similar testing should 
Liquidity
management
Liquidity 
commitee
Disaster
recovery
Plan testing
Development of
crisis management plan
Invoking
crisis management plan
Terminating
crisis management plan
Post-crisis
audit and improvements
Defensive measures
Communications
Establishing
priorities
Designating
crisis team
Liquidity
management
Liquidity 
commitee
External
Internal
Objective
metrics
Subjective 
input
Recentralization
Funding 
management
Asset
management
Risk hedging
Ensuring ex
ante access
 Figure 10.1  A liquidity crisis management program

--- Página 256 ---
Liquidity Crisis Management 
241
occur via the issuance of short and medium-term notes, the sale of small 
portions of the liquidity warehouse to test asset prices, and so forth. 
 While standard liquidity policies and procedures are likely to be used 
in the normal course of a firm’s business, it should be clear that advance 
preparation of a crisis program is an important part of prudent risk man-
agement. A firm can manage through a crisis situation with greater ease 
if it has a robust contingency plan in place. 
 Figure 10.1 summarizes aspects of the process discussed above.

--- Página 257 ---
242
 11 
 New Regulatory Initiatives 
 We have mentioned throughout the book various issues related to the 
financial crisis of 2007–2008, including deep and widespread losses, weak 
risk management and regulatory practices, and institutional and systemic 
liquidity dislocations. In fact, the financial crisis was so destructive, on 
so many levels, that it has caused many to consider what went wrong and 
how such financial destruction might be avoided in the future. To be 
sure, detailed discussion of “lessons learned” is beyond the scope of our 
theme; the brief summary at the beginning of this book touches on the 
issues related to liquidity risk, but the crisis was far deeper and broader. 
 Any objective review of the crisis reveals the fact that whilst financial 
institutions were the primary cause of, and transmission mechanism for, 
the crisis, regulations in existence at the time were inadequate to properly 
control institutional or systemic risks, including those associated with 
liquidity. Most regulations were either non-existent or too “high level” 
to be effective. It is not surprising, therefore, that a number of regulatory 
initiatives have been proposed, reviewed and promulgated since the end 
of the crisis; some of these have been central to the risk management 
topic generally, and to liquidity risk management specifically. A number 
of these initiatives are worth exploring in greater detail, as they build on 
material from previous chapters and chart a future course for liquidity risk 
management. Though our intent in the book has been to keep the topic 
of liquidity risk management general so that it is applicable across a mul-
titude of industries and sectors, we must, for obvious reasons, narrow our 
focus slightly in this chapter to concentrate on the regulatory initiatives 
that are being applied to financial institutions. In particular, we consider 
liquidity-focused measures put in place under Basel III (global banks), 
the Dodd-Frank Act (US financial institutions), BIPRU 12 (UK financial 
institutions) and Solvency II (EU insurers); we also consider some addi-
tional “best practices” put forth by the European banking supervisors. 
Note that in the interest of space we include only summary discussion of 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 258 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
243
the relevant points of each on these initiatives. Very detailed rulebooks 
should be consulted by those seeking precise formulae, descriptive list-
ings and so forth; these sources are listed in the reference section of the 
book. 
 Basel III 
 Some of the most important new liquidity rules are embedded in Basel 
III, the supervisory rules developed by the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision (BCBS) which are devolved to, and enforced by, national 
banking authorities in participating nations . Previous iterations of the 
Basel framework have focused on prudent bank capital levels related to 
credit risk (via Basel I, 1988, now largely replaced by its successors), mar-
ket risk (via the 1996 Amendment), and credit risk methodologies; capital 
levels for operational risk; and demonstration of robust risk management, 
capital allocation, disclosure and control processes embedded in bank-
ing organizations (via Basel II, 2004) . While each successive iteration has 
been designed to increase the strength and stability of both banks and 
the banking sector, each new crisis appears to highlight additional flaws. 
In fact, the financial crisis of 2007–2008 did just that, revealing gaps in 
the proper treatment of risk and allowing for regulatory arbitrage by mov-
ing business off-balance sheet and into SPEs. The crisis also revealed the 
shortcomings of credit and market risk models that had previously been 
approved by national regulators. 
 In an effort to improve on these shortcomings, BCBS proposed a series 
of post-crisis amendments to Basel II (so-called Basel II.5) whilst working 
towards the broader set of rules ultimately contained in Basel III. The 
amendments, offered between 2008 and 2009, focused on such topics 
as incremental capital charges to trading operations and enhancements 
to market risk computations, amongst other items. Basel III has become 
the new version of the framework, with a focus on minimum require-
ments for stress testing, new standards for bank capital adequacy based 
on both higher quality capital instruments and additional capital buffers 
(e.g., a mandatory capital conservation buffer and a discretionary coun-
ter-cyclical buffer), a limit to maximum leverage through a prescriptive 
definition, and, of interest to our discussion, prudent treatment of market 
liquidity risk. It comes as no surprise that the major themes of Basel III are 
all related to weaknesses uncovered during the last financial crisis. 
 New liquidity measures 
 Though a full review of all aspects of Basel III is beyond the scope of 
our discussion, a focus on the liquidity elements is both manageable

--- Página 259 ---
244 
Liquidity Risk
and relevant. In this section we consider the introduction of two new 
liquidity measures that must be instituted by all regulated banking insti-
tutions, the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and the net stable funding 
ratio (NSFR); the two ratios (along with the accompanying practices 
embodied in BCBS’s 2008  Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management ) 
are designed to ensure that banks maintain a sufficient amount of stable 
liquidity, so that individual institutions, and the marketplace at large, 
will not be as vulnerable during the next financial crisis. In fact, the cri-
sis demonstrated that while most banks had enough capital, more than 
a few were at considerable risk because of rapidly forming liquidity pres-
sures; the speed at which traditional funding sources disappeared was 
nothing short of remarkable. 
 Liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR) 
 We begin with a brief description of the LCR. This ratio is designed to 
promote a more robust handling of liquidity by requiring banks to pre-
serve enough unencumbered high-quality liquidity assets (HQLAs, as 
described below) to meet a 30-day liquidity stress scenario. Naturally, the 
LCR on its own is only a minimum measure and is not enough, by itself, 
to guarantee prudent liquidity management. Other sound liquidity risk 
management measures we have described in earlier chapters (e.g., proper 
governance, monitoring, stress testing, limits, and so forth) must be part 
of the process. In order to allow for reasonable implementation, banks 
are allowed to phase in the LCR between January 2015 (60% compliance) 
and January 2019 (100%). 
 The basic LCR formula is given in formula (11.1): 
 LCR
HQLA
Net CashOutflow
=
≥100%  
 Where 
 HQLA is the stock of high-quality liquid assets 
 Net Cash Outflow is the total net cash outflow over 30 days; total net 
cash outflow is computed as total cash outflows – min [total expected 
cash inflows; 75 percent of total cash outflows ] over the next 30 calendar 
days. 
 The formula thus indicates that HLQAs must more than cover net out-
flows over a 30 day horizon. We describe HQLAs in more detail below 
and in the endnotes, but for the moment we define them as unencum-
bered, low-risk assets that can be easily (and precisely) valued, which 
have low/no correlation with other risky assets, which are listed on a 
recognized exchange and that trade in an active/sizeable market. While 
this sounds like a rather formidable list of desirable characteristics (for

--- Página 260 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
245
obvious reasons), perhaps the most practical test is that qualifying assets 
must be saleable or repoable in times of market stress without a haircut. 
In fact, the BCBS recommends banks monetize a portion of their HQLAs 
periodically to verify the pricing (which is consistent with the point we 
raised earlier in the book). Assets taken in on reverse repo or derivatives 
collateral can also be included in the HQLA, to the extent no rehypothe-
cation has occurred; assets which are encumbered must, of course, be 
excluded. 
 Basel III distinguishes between assets in the HQLA, grouping them into 
2 broad classes: Level 1 and Level 2. Level 1 assets – high quality and liq-
uid, such as cash, bank reserves and government securities – can account 
for 100 percent of the pool and are not subject to a haircut under the 
LCR, though national supervisors preserve discretion on haircuts based 
on, among other things, their duration, credit and liquidity risk, and 
standard repo haircuts. 1 Level 2 assets – including lower-rated govern-
ment securities, corporate bonds and covered bonds – can comprise up 
to 40 percent of the HQLA pool (after having received a 15% mandatory 
haircut). The second Level 2 group, Level 2B, can be included based on 
national discretion, up to a maximum of 15 percent of the HQLA pool; 
this sub-portfolio includes riskier instruments, such as mid-rated corpo-
rate bonds and common shares. It is expected that regulators and partici-
pating banks will approach this topic with care and that the decision to 
allow additional assets will be made only after confirmation that partici-
pants have adequate systems and controls in place. Table 11.1 provides a 
 Table 11.1  LCR HQLA factors 
 HQLA Type 
 Factor (%) 
 Level 1 assets 
 Coins and bank notes 
 Qualifying marketable securities from sovereigns, central banks, 
public sector entities, multilateral development banks 
 Qualifying central bank reserves 
 Domestic sovereign, central bank debt for non 0% risk weighted 
sovereigns 
100
 Level 2A assets 
 Qualifying marketable securities from sovereigns, central banks, 
public sector entities, multilateral development banks with 20% 
risk weighting 
 Qualifying corporate debt securities AA- or above 
 Qualifying covered bonds AA- or above 
85
 Level 2B assets 
 Qualifying RMBS 
 Qualifying corporate debt securities A+ and BBB- 
 Qualifying common equity 
 75 
 50 
 50

--- Página 261 ---
246 
Liquidity Risk
summary of the LCR HQLA factors. Those with a factor closer to 100 per-
cent are more liquid, and require less coverage, than those with a factor 
closer to 50 percent. The caps on maximum Level 2 and 2B assets help 
ensure a given bank overweights its HQLA portfolio with the best and 
most liquid assets. 
 Let us now consider the net cash outflow component of the calculation 
in more detail. Per formula (11.1) above, the total expected cash outflows 
are calculated by multiplying outstanding balances of liabilities and off-
balance sheet commitments by the specified “run down rates”; the same 
occurs for inflows, albeit to a maximum of 75 percent (i.e., the cap put in 
place to ensure some modicum of conservatism). Although the run down 
rates are generally harmonized, some national discretion is still possible. 
For instance, the run down rate on stable retail deposits (e.g., those which 
are fully insured by a strong and prudent deposit insurance scheme) is 
assumed to be 3 percent, while the rate on those which are less stable 
increases to 10 percent. Foreign currency deposits are also assumed to be 
less stable than domestic deposits. Run downs on unsecured wholesale 
funding again vary based on the nature of the depositor: those from small 
business customers, which act similar to retail deposits, are set at 5 per-
cent, while those from the far less stable clearing and custody business are 
as high as 25 percent. 
 Tables 11.2 and 11.3 provide a summary of the LCR cash outflow and 
inflow run down rates. 
 Placing this information in the context of formula (11.1), the total from 
Table 11.2 minus the minimum of either the total from Table 11.3 or 
75 percent of gross outflows combine to form the denominator, while 
HQLA stock is the numerator. 
 The LCR needs to be reported to supervisors at least monthly, and more 
frequently as the need arises. The measure applies to all banks on a con-
solidated basis, with home jurisdiction rules applying for cross-border 
entities. Indeed, cross entity liquidity pools cannot be counted in the 
HQLA computation if there is any reason to suppose that the free transfer 
of assets may be jeopardized or otherwise delayed. 
 Net stable funding ratio ( NSFR) 
 NSFR, the second of the Basel III liquidity ratios, is intended to ensure 
stability over the medium- and long-term by encouraging more funding 
through stable financing sources (i.e., less “hot money” and more term 
financing). Through its very construction NSFR ensures that long-term 
assets (e.g., loans) are funded with some minimum amount of stable lia-
bilities – effectively discouraging too much reliance on short-term funds 
(and particularly those that are volatile). The relevant formula is given in 
(11.2):

--- Página 262 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
247
 Table 11.2  LCR cash outflow factors 
 Cash outflows 
 Run down 
rate (%) 
 Retail deposits 
 Stable deposits (less than 30 days maturity) 
 Less stable deposits (less than 30 days maturity) 
 Term deposits 
 3–5 
 10 
 0 
 Unsecured wholesale funding 
 Stable deposits by small business (less than 30 days maturity) 
 Less stable deposits (less than 30 days maturity) 
 Operational deposits from clearing, custody, cash management 
 Cooperative network qualifying deposits 
 Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral 
banks, PSEs 
 Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral 
banks, PSEs covered by deposit insurance 
 Other customers 
 5 
 10 
 25 
 25 
 40 
 20 
 100 
 Secured funding 
 Secured funding transactions with a central bank or secured by 
Level 1 assets 
 Secured funding transactions backed by Level 2A assets 
 Secured funding transactions with domestic sovereigns, 
multilateral development banks or domestic public sector 
enterprises 
 Secured funding transactions backed by Level 2B RMBS 
 Secured funding transactions backed by other Level 2B assets 
 All other transactions 
 0 
 15 
 25 
 25 
 50 
 100 
 Other requirements 
 Valuation changes on non-Level 1 assets posted as collateral on 
derivatives 
 Excess collateral held by a bank on a derivative that can be called 
by the counterparty 
 Liquidity needs related to collateral contractually due from the 
bank on derivatives 
 Increased liquidity needs related to derivatives that permit non-
HQLA collateral substitution 
 Liabilities from maturing ABCP, SIVs, SPV s 
 Asset backed securities applied to maturity amounts 
 Undrawn committed facilities to retail/small business clients 
 Undrawn committed facilities to non-financial corporates, 
sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks, 
public sector enterprises 
 Undrawn committed facilities to regulated banks 
 Undrawn committed facilities to other financial institutions and 
other legal entity customers 
 Other contingent funding liabilities for trade finance 
 Other contingent funding liabilities for customer short positions 
 Additional contractual outflows 
 Net derivative cash outflows 
 20 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 100 
 5 
 10–30 
 40 
 40–100 
 0–5 
 50 
 100 
 100

--- Página 263 ---
248 
Liquidity Risk
 Table 11.3  LCR cash inflow factors 
 Cash inflows 
 Run down rate (%) 
 Maturing secured lending 
 Maturing secured lending transactions backed by 
Level 1A assets 
 Maturing secured lending transactions backed by 
Level 2A assets 
 Maturing secured lending transactions backed by 
Level 2B RMBS 
 Maturing secured lending transactions backed by 
other Level 2B assets 
 0 
 15 
 25 
 50 
 Other maturing/credit transactions 
 Margin lending backed by all other collateral 
 All other assets 
 Credit or liquidity facilities provided to bank 
 Operational deposits held at other financial 
institutions 
 50 
 100 
 0 
 0 
 Other inflows 
 Receivables from retail counterparties 
 Receivables from non-financial wholesale counter-
parties 
 Receivables from financial institutions and central 
banks 
 Net derivative cash inflows 
 50 
 50 
 100 
 100 
 NSFR
Available stable funding
equired stable funding
=
>
R
100  
 Where 
 Stable funding is defined as the amount of equity and liabilities expected 
to be reliably available over a 1-year time horizon, under stressed condi-
tions (where the stress centers on an increase in solvency risk coming 
from losses, a downgrading event or some other material event affecting 
operations). 
 From a technical perspective, the financing categories shown in 
Table 11.4 qualify as available stable funding sources by percentage 
weighting (i.e., the higher the percentage factor, the more stable the 
funding). 
 The amount of required stable funding is computed by examining the 
liquidity characteristics of a bank’s individual assets and contingencies. 
Not surprisingly, special focus is given to illiquid assets (regardless of 
how they are treated from an accounting perspective) and to the rel-
evant portion of off-balance sheet commitments. Thus, the amount of

--- Página 264 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
249
 Table 11.4  Available stable funding factors 
 Funding Type 
 Factor (%) 
Equity capital (Tier 1 and Tier 2)
100
Preferred stock with maturity in excess of 1 year
100
Borrowings and liabilities with maturity in excess of 1 year
100
“Stable” demand deposits or terms deposits with maturities 
under 1 year provided by retail or small business customers
90
“Less stable” demand deposits or terms deposits with maturities 
under 1 year provided by retail or small business customers
80
Wholesale demand deposits or term deposits with maturities 
under 1 year
50
All other liabilities
0
 Table 11.5  Required stable funding factors 
 RSF Category 
 Factor (%) 
 Cash 
 Unencumbered short-term instruments with maturities of less than 
1 year 
 Unencumbered securities with remaining maturities of less than 
1 year 
 Unencumbered securities with an offsetting reverse repurchase 
transaction 
 Unencumbered loans to financial entities with remaining maturi-
ties of less than 1 year, with an irrevocable right to all 
0
Unencumbered marketable securities with maturities of more 
than 1 year that are claims on sovereigns, central banks and 
multilateral banks and public sector enterprises in 0% risk weight 
countries
5
 Unencumbered corporate bonds or covered bonds rated AA- or 
higher with maturities of more than 1 year 
 Unencumbered marketable securities with maturities of more 
than 1 year that are claims on sovereigns, central banks and 
multilateral banks and public sector enterprises in 20% risk 
weight countries 
20
 Unencumbered gold 
 Unencumbered listed common equity securities, not issued by 
financial institutions 
 Unencumbered corporate bonds or covered bonds that are central 
bank-eligible for liquidity, not issued by financial institutions, are 
rated A+ to A– and trade in a deep market 
50
 Unencumbered residential mortgages that quality for a 35% risk 
weight 
 Unencumbered loans with a maturity of more than 1 year, that 
qualify for a 35% risk weight 
65
Unencumbered loans to retail customers or small business 
customers with a maturity of less than 1 year
85
All other assets not previously mentioned
100

--- Página 265 ---
250 
Liquidity Risk
required stable funding is obtained by multiplying the value of an asset 
(or contingency) by a so-called required stable funding (RSF) factor, and 
then summing up across each individual RSF-adjusted asset (and con-
tingency). Not surprisingly, the more liquid the asset, the lower the RSF 
factor; encumbered assets, by extension, have an RSF factor of 100 per-
cent. We might say, therefore, that the RSF factors provide an estimate 
of the amount of an asset that can be monetized during a stress event 
lasting a year or more. The focus of NSFR is obviously on longer-term 
liquidity issues (whereas short-term liquidity issues are governed by the 
LCR described above); accordingly, assets and liabilities maturing in less 
than one year are excluded from the exercise (and are simply matched 
by bucket to reveal possible mismatches). The required stable funding 
attached to off-balance sheet contingencies can be thought of as some-
thing of a “reserve,” to be used if ever needed. Table 11.5 highlights the 
RSF factors for various accounts. As noted, assets accounts with an RSF 
factor closer to 0 percent are more liquid than those that are closer to 
100 percent. 
 Monitoring liquidity risks 
 Regular reporting of LCR and NSFR must begin prior to the “go live” date 
of 2015 and will become a regular feature of bank transparency there-
after. To be sure, the challenge is significant, particularly in large, com-
plex institutions. Many firms already face significant data quality and 
technology issues, and adding another set of very specific and involved 
reporting instructions will do little to alleviate existing infrastructure 
pressures. 
 In addition to the specifics of LCR and NSFR, the new regulatory 
framework calls for a more precise and consistent view of liquidity 
monitoring metrics and reporting. This is undoubtedly in response to 
the poor job that most banks (and national regulators) did in the run 
up to the financial crisis of 2007. While certain guidelines and best 
practices existed, they were wholly insufficient to warn against, or pre-
vent, any of the major liquidity-induced problems that appeared during 
the crisis. 
 Among the key areas of monitoring focus are contractual maturity 
mismatches, funding concentrations, available unencumbered assets, 
counterbalancing capacity, and LCR by currency. Per Basel III, banks 
must have in place a robust framework that lets them project cash 
flows coming from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet contingen-
cies, across a relevant time horizon. Let us first consider the maturity 
mismatches. Under the new regulatory framework, banks are required

--- Página 266 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
251
to map all on- and off-balance sheet cash flows by time bucket (e.g., 
overnight; next day; 7, 14, 30, 60, 90, 180 days; or 1, 3, 5, 5+ years), 
determining the mismatches in each bucket by assuming no rollover 
of existing liabilities. This information would presumably alert a bank 
to any instances where gaps look unfavorable and need some correc-
tive action. From the perspective of concentrations, banks are required 
to present the funding liabilities from significant counterparties as a 
percentage of products/instruments – once again, to alert a bank to any 
overweight positions that might be in jeopardy in the event of counter-
party downgrade, default or withdrawal. Unencumbered asset monitor-
ing is centered on available assets that are marketable as collateral in the 
secondary markets and those that are eligible for inclusion in central 
bank repo facilities. The reporting includes amount, type and location 
by currency, and must also include an estimated haircut for each asset. 
Counterbalancing capacity (CBC) is another important metric produced 
by banks and can be used with the liquidity gap to determine the net 
liquidity position. In essence, it conveys the amount of liquidity an 
institution is able to access over a given period to cover any gap, e.g., 
cash from HQLAs along with cash generated from specific pre-emptive 
actions (e.g., delaying cash out and accelerating cash in). 2 Figure 11.1 
illustrates how cash flows, gaps, and the CBC combine to reveal the net 
liquidity position. 
 Any bank operating in multiple jurisdictions must also monitor 
LCR by significant currency. In this instance, a bank uses the stand-
ard LCR formula described above in each relevant currency – thus, 
HQLAs would reflect all the assets held in a given non-domestic cur-
rency, while net cash outflows would reflect all the 30-day cash flows 
Contractual cash ﬂows
(loans, deposits)
Future cash ﬂows (loan 
renewals, deposit 
renewals)
Potential cash ﬂows
(granted credit lines, callable 
liabilities)
Liquidity Gap 
(positive/negative)
Counterbalancing 
capacity
Net liquidity position 
(positive/negative)
+
 Figure 11.1  Cash flows, CBC and the net liquidity position

--- Página 267 ---
252 
Liquidity Risk
in that  non-domestic currency, net of any currency hedges. In addition 
to these specific monitoring mechanisms, BCBS urges banks to make 
use of other market and financial metrics, as well as those relevant to 
each individual institution, in order to form the most complete liquid-
ity picture possible. 
 While LCR and NSFR and the new liquidity monitoring tools can be 
regarded as positive enhancements, they must still be seen as limited in 
scope; they are just additional “tools in the toolkit” rather than com-
prehensive solutions. There is also some degree of uncertainty regarding 
the potential “unintended consequences” that could arise through imple-
mentation of LCR and NSFR. For instance, demand for certain types of 
HQLAs may outstrip supply, leading to increasingly expensive liquidity 
protection. In addition, institutions that cannot meet the requirement 
or who feel that resources can be allocated in more productive ways may 
choose to deleverage their balance sheets; this, in turn, may constrain 
the flow of credit to economic sectors, causing a slowdown in growth. 
The true effects of the new Basel liquidity requirements will take several 
years to unfold. 
 Dodd-Frank Act 
 The US Dodd-Frank Act (or, more formally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection  Act ) is a broad-based US legislative 
framework signed into law in July 2010 in response to the problems and 
abuses brought to light during the financial crisis. The Act is comprehen-
sive in its scope, covering topics related to consumer protection; proprie-
tary trading; leverage, liquidity and risk concentrations; payment systems 
and clearinghouses; governance; mortgage reforms; and so forth; in fact, 
the regulatory reach of the bill is so extensive that, even several years 
after being signed into law, major portions of the detailed implementa-
tion were still being resolved. 
 While the bill is broad and contains many provisions, we are particu-
larly interested in the portion related to liquidity risks, which is included 
under Section 165. Specifically, the new liquidity-related regulations (to 
be overseen by the Federal Reserve for US bank holding companies with 
over $50 billion in assets and systemically important “non-bank financial 
institutions”) are centered on the following:
 Creating proper risk management governance processes, which 
 
●
explicitly deal with liquidity risks (as well as all other financial 
risks) 
 Establishing relevant liquidity limits based on key liquidity metrics 
 
●

--- Página 268 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
253
 Keeping a liquidity buffer of HQLAs in an amount that is sufficient to 
 
●
meet projected net cash outflows and projected loss of funding sources 
for 30 days under a stressed liquidity condition 
 Performing liquidity stress tests every month to determine any asset 
 
●
deterioration under defined stressed market conditions; relevant time 
horizons are overnight, 30 days, 90 days and 1 year 
 Creating in advance a contingency funding plan for managing stress 
 
●
events; this should include a quantitative assessment of liquidity needs 
and alternative funding sources (under the assumption that normal 
sources will be unavailable) and an actual process for managing the 
institution through a defined liquidity event 
 Adhering to the LCR and NSFR measures promulgated under Basel III 
 
●
(which will be done via separate US rulemaking). 
 As we can see, these measures are either precisely or approximately equal 
to those we have discussed earlier in the chapter and earlier in the book: 
e.g., keeping enough HQLAs on hand, performing stress tests, developing 
and using a contingency plan, and measuring LCR and NSFR. Though 
they break no “new ground” as such, they codify what institutions should 
have been doing all along and in that sense create new higher standards 
for liquidity risk management. 
 Committee Of European Banking Supervisors Liquidity 
Consultation 
 While Basel III is a formalized reflection of the framework developed by 
the BCBS and is intended as the blueprint for national compliance, the 
Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS) has put forth its own 
recommendations. While these may not be binding in all cases, they form 
an important contribution to the post-crisis discussion on liquidity. 
 CEBS, in its mid-2009 “Consultation paper on liquidity buffers and sur-
vival periods,” put forth a series of guidelines after input from, and dis-
course with, various regulatory and industry partners. Not surprisingly, 
many of these reinforce themes found in Basel III and Dodd-Frank, and are 
grounded in prudence and common sense. The CEBS guidelines include:
 Maintaining an adequate liquidity buffer, defined as available liquidity 
 
●
resources that can be used to cover additional liquidity needs over a 
short time period under stressed market conditions. 
 Establishing the correct size of liquidity buffer by using a survival 
 
●
period (e.g., defensive interval) of at least 30 days under stressed mar-
ket conditions.

--- Página 269 ---
254 
Liquidity Risk
 Ensuring the liquidity buffer is comprised of cash and assets that are 
 
●
highly liquid and central bank eligible (e.g., repoable with the central 
bank). Where needed, banks must be able to demonstrate their ability 
to generate liquidity from specified assets. 
 Performing three stress scenarios, including one which is institution-
 
●
specific (i.e., no rollover of unsecured wholesale funding together with 
outflows of a certain percentage of retail deposits), a second which is 
market-based (i.e., reduction in liquidity value of certain assets and 
worsening conditions in various funding sources/markets), and a third 
which is hybrid (i.e., representing the specific and general cases). 
 Managing inventories of liquid assets actively enough to ensure they 
 
●
will be available as needed; this means limiting concentrations and 
ensuring that no legal entity or operational restrictions block the 
movement of asset sales or pledging when needed. 
 Ensuring that the legal structure of the bank and its access to liquid-
 
●
ity are synchronized, so that there is no possibility of liquidity being 
trapped in a subsidiary or other part of the banking group. 
 Financial Services Authority  BIPRU 12 
 The UK’s FSA has put forth its own regimen of liquidity enhancements 
through its consultative and finalized publications in 2008 through 
2009; the final work, which is contained in bank prudential regulation 
12 (BIPRU 12), was put into effect in stages in 2009 and 2010, and is now 
mandatory for banks, building societies, and investment companies oper-
ating in the UK. s Once again, the main themes navigate relatively familiar 
territory, focusing on several key areas:
 Ensuring adequate liquidity and self-sufficiency. In the first instance, a 
 
●
qualifying institution must be able to demonstrate that it has enough 
liquid resources, of sufficiently high quality, to be able to operate 
effectively, even under stressed conditions. (Note that the prudential 
rulebook does not prescribe which specific assets qualify as “liquid,” 
noting only that a firm must hold sufficient assets which are market-
able or realizable, that it can generate funds from those assets in a 
timely manner (e.g., repo), and that the assets have maturities appro-
priate to the funding profile.) In the second instance, the institution 
must ensure that individual entities within the group have enough 
of their own liquidity that they need not rely on group transfers of 
cash; this is obviously intended to remove the risk of trapped cash or 
hoarding by, for instance, the parent company. In this sense, every

--- Página 270 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
255
 significant  subsidiary or legal entity within a consolidated group must 
have enough standalone liquidity to continue with its operations. 
While this is certainly prudent from a regulatory perspective, it may 
not result in optimal allocation of resources. Note that it is permissible 
for a subsidiary to have access to a parent company’s liquidity sources – 
however, this access must have a legal basis and not simply exist as a 
potential or theoretical right. 
 Implementing enhanced systems and controls. The FSA requires 
 
●
qualifying institutions to adopt infrastructure and control processes 
that allow for proper monitoring and management of liquidity risks; 
such minimum standards are based on those developed by BCBS 
and CEBS. Examples of this type of governance and process include 
detailed requirements about the responsibilities of individual groups 
within a firm with regard to liquidity risk; development of strategies, 
policies, systems, limits, contingency funding plans and stress tests; 
pricing of liquidity risk; and management of collateral, among other 
items. Importantly, firms should demonstrate a linkage between busi-
ness strategies and the liquidity risks generated so that there is proper 
proportionality. In addition, the control framework should build logi-
cally upon the one developed under Basel II Pillar 2 Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) requirements, so that there is 
adequate synchronicity. 
 Developing a quantitative framework for liquidity management that 
 
●
allows a firm to survive through market stress scenarios of varying 
severity and duration (e.g., an idiosyncratic stress lasting 2 weeks, a 
market-wide stress lasting 3 months, and a joint scenario incorporating 
both). This framework must be reviewed through the FSA’s independ-
ent liquidity adequacy assessment, which evaluates the firm’s adher-
ence to systems, controls, stress tests, liquid asset sufficiency, and so 
forth. 
 Creating proper group-wide and cross-border management of liquid-
 
●
ity. In instances where it is deemed appropriate, a qualifying institu-
tion can apply through waivers and modifications for an exemption 
to the self-sufficiency requirement. This can only be done, of course, 
if no additional risks are created for a range of stakeholders. In order 
to qualify for a modification, a firm must submit an application that 
addresses its need to modify the overall liquidity adequacy rule by 
relying on other group companies. It must also adhere to statutory 
tests under the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000. The point 
of the modifications/exemptions is to make it relatively challenging, 
though not impossible, for an individual firm to avoid the principle 
of self-sufficiency. Naturally, an entity receiving an exemption from

--- Página 271 ---
256 
Liquidity Risk
self-sufficiency must still comply with the control, quantitative, and 
reporting requirements. 
 Developing granular standardized reporting of liquidity risks which the 
 
●
FSA can then use for surveillance purposes across institutions, markets 
and risk exposures. The reporting requirements (which vary in terms of 
frequency, from weekly to quarterly to annually) include the following: 
 FSA047: Daily flows. This includes daily flows out to 3 months so 
that the survival periods can be computed and so that any potential 
liquidity squeezes are discovered sooner rather than later. Frequency is 
weekly (or daily if there is liquidity stress). 
 FSA048: Enhanced Mismatch Report (EMR). This includes the ILAS 
risk drivers and contractual flows across the full maturity spectrum. 
Frequency as above. 
 FSA050: Liquidity Buffer. This provides a more detailed analysis of a 
firm’s marketable assets. Frequency is monthly. 
 FSA051: Funding concentration. This captures a firm’s borrowings 
from unsecured wholesale funders, by counterparty. Frequency is 
monthly. 
 FSA052: Wholesale liabilities. This includes daily transaction prices 
and transacted volumes for wholesale unsecured liabilities. Frequency 
is weekly. 
 FSA053: Retail, Small and Medium Enterprises, Large Enterprises, 
and Corporate funding. This includes a firm’s retail and corporate 
funding profiles and the stickiness of various retail deposits. Frequency 
is quarterly. 
 FSA054: Currency analysis. This includes an analysis of a firm’s FX 
exposures on the balance sheets. Frequency is quarterly. 
 FSA055: Systems and Controls Questionnaire. This permits FSA to 
monitor a non-ILAS BIPRU firm’s compliance with the new require-
ments. Frequency is annual. 
 Through these collective requirements, FSA expects participating insti-
tutions to strengthen their understanding and management of liquidity 
risk, employ stress testing and contingency funding plans more actively, 
improve the funding profile by reducing reliance on short-term funding 
and other forms of “hot money” in favor of “sticky” retail funds, and 
hold a more liquid asset buffer. Whilst it is understood that these actions 
will not prevent any future liquidity crises, the expectation is that firms 
operating in the UK marketplace will be better prepared to deal with the 
effects of any such crisis.

--- Página 272 ---
New Regulatory Initiatives 
257
 Solvency II and Other Insurance Regulations 
 Solvency II exists as the insurance industry’s “Basel II equivalent,” using 
the “3 pillar approach” to establish minimum requirements for risk strat-
egy and appetite (including capital allocation), valuation/measurement, 
monitoring, management and controls, and disclosure and market infor-
mation. The ultimate goal of the framework (which replaces the original 
Solvency I) is to create over time a convergence path between banking 
and insurance regulation, recognizing that there are (and will continue 
to be) differences between the two sectors. For instance, we can draw an 
important distinction between bank and insurer liabilities: while banks 
often borrow short-term to lend long-term (thus creating a potential trou-
blesome gap), insurers carry significant long-term liabilities from their 
historical books of business; short-term funding is considerably smaller, 
meaning different dynamics are at work, particularly with regard to 
liquidity. 
 Solvency II classes risks into five categories – insurance, market, liquid-
ity, credit, and operational risks – and requires demonstration of effective 
risk management of each one. The intent is to ensure insurance compa-
nies feature a better reflection of the risk profile, align economic and 
regulatory capital, and synchronize the risk profile with capital (where 
that risk profile explicitly also addresses liquidity risks). Article 44 of the 
EU Solvency II Directive, for instance, establishes relevant standards for 
liquidity management, requiring risk management processes to address 
asset liability management activities and liquidity and concentration 
management activities, topics we have touched on earlier in the book. 
While Solvency II is a Eurozone initiative, with rollout from 2013 and 
beyond, it also applies to EU subsidiaries of US insurance groups and, from 
a consolidation perspective, US subsidiaries of EU insurance groups. 
 Some insurance companies need not adhere to Solvency II – namely, the 
large Swiss insurers, which are governed by their own domestic regula-
tions. In fact, the Swiss Financial Markets Supervisory Authority (FINMA) 
has historically required insurers to practice “prudent liquidity manage-
ment,” demonstrating an organizational structure that allows for effec-
tive monitoring and management of liquidity. However, in 2012 FINMA 
launched a new effort to deepen and formalize liquidity management 
regulation, focused on the following:
 Identify liquidity risk in annual capital planning, with clarity on 
 
●
sources and demands, and with detailed explanations on assumptions 
 Determine the cumulative cash inflows and outflows under normal 
 
●
market conditions and “tightened market conditions”

--- Página 273 ---
258 
Liquidity Risk
 Report annually to FINMA in detail the true liquidity position of the 
 
●
group. 
 It should be relatively clear from the brief overview given in this chapter 
that, post-crisis, the financial sector is required to focus more intently 
and formally on liquidity risk management, which is a welcome effort. 
The main caveat to stress is that while many of the steps summarized 
above should help individual institutions cope with liquidity risk in a 
more prudent and proactive fashion, they will not eliminate the spectre 
of idiosyncratic or systemic liquidity problems. These issues will continue 
to exist since liquidity risk can never be eliminated entirely – though it 
will hopefully never be as damaging as during the 2007–2008 crisis.

--- Página 274 ---
259
 12 
 Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity 
Risk Management 
 As we conclude our review and analysis of liquidity risk, we consider the 
prospects for active liquidity risk management over the medium term. It 
is clear, in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2007–2008, that com-
panies (and sovereigns) have become more attuned to risks and risk man-
agement over the past few decades. Volatile markets, asset and funding 
dislocations, systemic stresses, and resulting losses have played an impor-
tant part in heightening risk awareness, though wrenching events like 
the last crisis highlight that more needs to be done. With little to indicate 
that the economic and financial operating environment will become more 
benign in coming years, rigorous risk management will remain essential. 
But there can be little doubt that liquidity risk has entered thought and 
practice in the financial mainstream. Identification and management of 
liquidity risk is now the norm rather than the exception, which must be 
considered a significant step forward. 
 In order to cope with business uncertainties, many institutions now fea-
ture formalized risk management processes, including those focused on 
liquidity exposures. Indeed, with each new micro or macro crisis, firms 
appear more willing to consider changes that will allow them to manage 
their risks more effectively (in some cases, of course, regulators step in and 
demand that changes be made). Some firms have made conscious efforts 
to reduce their reliance on a small group of funding markets, lenders, or 
investors; others have created policies allowing them to decrease assets 
in times of financial strain, and still others have created robust liquidity 
warehouses with an appropriate mix of high-quality, saleable assets. Such 
processes must be extended even further, to the point where all firms 
have some type of liquidity risk management mechanism in place – ide-
ally, one that is linked to other aspects of financial risk management. As 
we summarize our work in this book, we consider the nature of essential 
firm-specific best practices and discuss the role and responsibility of regu-
latory authorities in helping promote a system of sound liquidity. 
E. Banks, Liquidity Risk
© Erik Banks 2014

--- Página 275 ---
260 
Liquidity Risk
 The Micro Role: Best Practices 
 We know from our discussion in this book that there is no single “correct 
solution” to the effective management of liquidity risk: processes that are 
effective for one company or industry might be of limited use to another, 
those that are best suited for normal market conditions might be inap-
propriate during a crisis, and so forth. That said, the conceptual basis 
for managing liquidity risk is sufficiently universal that it is possible to 
develop a micro-level summary of best practices, applicable in general 
across firms and market conditions. This summary is a crystallization of 
ideas we have presented in previous chapters. 
 Creating a sound governance framework 
 Preserving stakeholder confidence is an essential element of liquidity 
 
●
management; companies must be perceived as being stable and in con-
trol of their liquidity position at all times, and they should communi-
cate this message to stakeholders. 
 The board of directors must play a leading role in defining and commu-
 
●
nicating the firm’s ability and desire to assume liquidity risk. It must 
authorize the creation of the mechanisms needed to create a proper 
liquidity risk management process (including a liquidity committee, 
risk expertise, policies, procedures, and technical infrastructure). 
 The board of directors should define the firm’s liquidity philosophy 
 
●
through a liquidity risk mandate, ensuring that it is consistent with the 
firm’s strategy, business focus, risk appetite, and resources. There can 
be no inconsistency in these fundamental issues: if business strategy 
and liquidity risk appetite are not synchronized, it will only be a ques-
tion of time before a firm runs into trouble. 
 The liquidity risk mandate must be conveyed to all interested stake-
 
●
holders, including investors, creditors, regulators, employees, and rat-
ing agencies; subsequent changes (approved under the direction of 
directors and executives) should also be broadcast. 
 Overarching liquidity risk policies and procedures must be crafted by 
 
●
the liquidity committee and disseminated throughout the firm; poli-
cies should be reviewed annually to ensure they remain relevant. 
 A proper internal liquidity risk pricing mechanism must be put in 
 
●
place to price risk fairly and to sensitize business managers to the cost 
of assuming incremental risk. 
 The degree of decentralization and nature of delegated responsibilities 
 
●
related to management of liquidity risks must be clearly defined by 
directors and executives.

--- Página 276 ---
Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity Risk Management 
261
 Liquidity practices must be properly incorporated into all of the firm’s 
 
●
financial activities; the linkage between market, credit, and liquidity 
risks means that they must be considered and managed jointly, par-
ticularly if a firm is attempting to operate efficiently and maximize 
enterprise value. 
 The liquidity risk/return trade-off is always present; the firm must con-
 
●
sider the right balance between revenue maximization and liquidity 
preservation, particularly when it comes to determining a proper fund-
ing program and an optimal liquidity warehouse. 
 A comprehensive liquidity risk management program that makes 
 
●
appropriate use of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet transactions 
to generate liquidity, as and when needed, should form the centerpiece 
of any process. 
 The liquidity risk process must be based on realistic assessments of cur-
 
●
rent and future business and cash flow needs under a variety of operat-
ing and growth scenarios; these should then form the foundation for 
more extensive stress testing. 
 Banking and investor funding relationships must be reviewed fre-
 
●
quently to determine whether they are stable and diversified and can 
adequately meet the company’s changing needs. 
 The liquidity risk management process should be surrounded by 
 
●
independent controllers capable of regularly analyzing and auditing 
aspects of measurement, monitoring, and management. The process 
should be examined by directors and executives at least annually to 
make sure that it remains consistent with the firm’s mandate, struc-
ture, and growth plans, and is relevant in the market and regulatory 
environment. 
 Implementing proper measures and reporting 
 The firm should develop and use robust liquidity risk measures that 
 
●
are applicable to its business. While balance sheet data can provide 
useful point-in-time stock measures, these should be supplemented 
by dynamic flow measures that take account of gaps, durations, 
probabilities of draw-down, disposal discounts, and loss of market 
access. 
 Measures must be conservative in their treatment of pricing and liquida-
 
●
tion parameters, particularly during stress periods. Conservative evalu-
ation of asset discounts and funding access (including quantity and 
speed) is the safest way of managing general liquidity risks; although 
a conservative approach can dampen overall enterprise returns, it can 
help minimize the chance of financial distress.

--- Página 277 ---
262 
Liquidity Risk
 The inherent flaws of quantitative models must be understood, particu-
 
●
larly during times of market stress when model assumptions may prove 
unrealistic. Models should be supplementary tools, and they cannot 
replace other liquidity measures, stress tests, or experiential analysis. 
 Independent experts must always value assets, liabilities, and off-bal-
 
●
ance sheet contracts, and model valuations should be routinely tested 
for reasonableness. 
 Assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet activities must be regularly 
 
●
stress-tested to reveal areas of vulnerability. Stress tests should range 
from mild to extreme, and the results must be used to help shape busi-
ness strategy and contingency planning. Stress test results must be 
viewed as useful approximations, not precise computations. 
 Continuous monitoring of profiles and trends is essential; qualitative 
 
●
and anecdotal measures must also be followed closely (such as the sta-
tus of credit renewals, widening of spreads, and changing terms in 
loan agreements). 
 Detailed information related to critical daily, weekly, and monthly 
 
●
flows must be given to business and control managers. Summary infor-
mation must be given regularly to directors and executives for discus-
sion and action. 
 The firm’s infrastructure should be able to provide managers with fre-
 
●
quent, granular detail on liquidity risks. 
 Using tactical controls 
 Limits should be established to control all relevant aspects of liquidity 
 
●
exposure and should relate directly to the firm’s liquidity risk mandate. 
 Concentrations within the asset, funding, and off-balance sheet port-
 
●
folios can intensify a liquidity problem; diversification across invest-
ments, obligors, lenders, maturities, credit ratings, markets, and 
products is an essential component of prudent risk management. 
 Even when no specific regulatory requirements exist, a liquidity ware-
 
●
house must be established and maintained to help absorb unexpected 
payments. Additional protection via reserves is advisable. 
 A firm must maintain constructive relationships and communications 
 
●
with its key lenders and investors, and should continuously develop 
new sources of funding. 
 Off-balance sheet activities should be monitored and controlled closely; 
 
●
since they can expand future contingencies and liabilities in an uncer-
tain, and sometimes opaque, manner, they must be explicitly limited. 
 The firm should regularly test its ability to sell a portion of its liquid-
 
●
ity warehouse, including both conventional, high-quality government 
bonds and complex, difficult to value, or thinly traded financial assets, 
as a way of verifying asset valuations, model accuracy, and haircuts.

--- Página 278 ---
Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity Risk Management 
263
 Developing and implementing a crisis management process 
 A centralized crisis management program that is regularly tested and 
 
●
updated must be developed in advance of a crisis, not during a crisis. 
Knowing when to invoke the program is absolutely essential, as any 
unnecessary delay can prove costly. 
 The program should be based on well-defined asset, liability, and 
 
●
hedging priorities, and feature a very rigorous and dynamic commu-
nications process (geared particularly toward external stakeholders, 
including regulators, investors, creditors and clients). 
 Objective measures should be the primary method of invoking a pro-
 
●
gram, but subjective review and judgment should form part of the proc-
ess. Indicators that can serve as possible “early warning signs” should 
be reviewed regularly. 
 Committed backup bank lines should be tested on a regular basis, 
 
●
regardless of the negative message it might send the marketplace. 
 Advised bank lines should be completely discounted in a crisis man-
 
●
agement scenario. 
 Performing ongoing reviews 
 A firm’s liquidity risk process should be thoroughly vetted by internal 
 
●
and external auditors to ensure that it meets necessary governance and 
regulatory standards. Auditors should verify proper independence and 
segregation of duties between those generating and controlling liquid-
ity risks. 
 When liquidity problems arise and are ultimately resolved, a firm must 
 
●
examine the causes, reactions, and solutions to determine whether 
enhancements to the overall process are necessary. 
 Policies and procedures should be analyzed to determine their efficacy 
 
●
and consistency in supporting the liquidity risk mandate. 
 Procedures related to violations and penalties should be reviewed, and 
 
●
actual application of proper disciplinary action should be confirmed. 
 Valuation models (such as VAR, LAVAR, derivative and credit risk pric-
 
●
ing, and stress testing algorithms) must be independently reviewed 
and benchmarked, and the assumptions driving the results must be 
thoroughly understood. 
 The integrity of the data used for liquidity measurement and monitor-
 
●
ing should be verified by internal auditors. 
 The Macro Role 
 While much of what we consider in this book is directed towards institu-
tional-level management of liquidity, we know that macro bodies have a

--- Página 279 ---
264 
Liquidity Risk
role to play as well. Any regime or rule that promotes system-wide liquid-
ity helps individual institutions cope with their own liquidity. The issue 
becomes increasingly important as global asset and funding markets 
become more intricately related and co-dependent: effective funding, 
trading, financing, investing, hedging, and speculating require systemic 
stability. In fact, there exists a very strong relationship between financial 
institutions and financial markets: banks in particular require markets 
in order to access funding and risk management/transfer opportunities, 
while markets require banks for liquidity and maturity transformation 
and credit provision. Systemic stability is thus essential. 
 Unfortunately, in a drive to achieve certain levels of market share or 
profitability, entire sectors may misprice or ignore their risks, which can 
add to systemic instability. As we have seen, ripples that flow through 
the system can be especially damaging, and have the potential to cre-
ate significant financial losses for individual firms and entire sectors. 
Accordingly, it is incumbent on industry regulators, representatives, and 
self-regulatory organizations to consider mechanisms that can help pro-
mote and expand stability. While some national authorities already play 
an active role in this area, others do not, or need to improve their proc-
esses and techniques. 
 The role of regulators in fostering conditions that protect and encour-
age liquidity is important. Although this relates primarily to the financial 
sector in its role as liquidity provider to all other industries, it need not 
be limited to financial institutions; where relevant, industry represent-
atives and trade groups should promulgate best practices for other sec-
tors as well. Within the financial services industry, a number of national 
banking regulators, insurance commissioners, securities regulators, and 
supranational organizations have put forth varying rules and recommen-
dations regarding the protection of liquidity, including those applicable 
in a post-crisis world. We have summarized some of these points in the 
book, and note further that their recommendations are often quite exten-
sive and, in the main, constructive. But they are not exhaustive: while 
financial regulators have been quite direct and precise in the manage-
ment of credit and market risks, they have tended to be more oblique in 
their approach to liquidity risks, in some cases addressing the issue only 
indirectly – if at all. 1 While this lack of direct treatment has changed since 
the financial crisis of 2007–2008, it is still a nascent and unproven effort. 
In addition, we have noted that there are instances where regulations can 
actually exacerbate liquidity problems (such as the use of standard risk 
models, and the creation of countercyclical capital and capital controls). 
Fortunately these are still the exception rather than the norm. Although 
new regulatory initiatives have been developed in recent years, regulators

--- Página 280 ---
Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity Risk Management 
265
can help foster an even more robust environment by conducting regular 
inspections, promoting competition, avoiding fragmentation, minimiz-
ing costs, harmonizing accounting treatment, ensuring proper capital 
allocations, and providing selective lender of last resort access. We con-
sider each one of these in more detail. 
 Conducting regular inspections 
 Regulatory and industry bodies should regularly examine the liquidity 
practices of institutions operating in their jurisdictions. The review should 
focus on many of the topics we discussed in previous chapters, includ-
ing measurement, monitoring, and management, as well as the nature of 
governance and independent controls that surround the process, mecha-
nisms used to manage legal entity requirements, and the particulars of 
any contingency/crisis management program. In fact, authorities should 
insist on the creation and use of contingency programs, as these can help 
minimize instances of systemic dislocation. While much of the focus of 
external regulatory inspections is, rightly, on the financial institutions 
sector, trade groups and self-regulatory organizations should review the 
activities of non-financial institutions based on minimum best-practice 
standards. We have already noted instances where large non-financial 
institutions, lacking the proper approach to liquidity risk management 
or the scrutiny of a regulator, have encountered significant difficulties. 
Future problems can be minimized through a formal review process. 
 Promoting competition 
 It is clear that market makers, dealers, and exchanges have a central role 
to play in the provision of financial asset liquidity. They must be allowed 
to operate in a competitive and efficient manner, and regulators should 
promote any prudent deregulation measures that allow for greater com-
petition. We have indicated that as more participants are attracted to a 
market, bid–offer spreads tighten, volumes increase, additional partici-
pants are drawn in, and so forth, in a self-perpetuating cycle. Regulators 
should encourage measures that support heterogeneity in order to help 
build two-way flows; for instance, allowing certain parties to participate 
in areas that have previously been restricted or prohibited can create 
opposing views and generate more trading interest. But promoting com-
petition does not mean allowing risks to be mispriced; it is important to 
stress that undercutting margins to gain market share and inject liquidity 
is not a viable or sustainable process, either for individual institutions or 
marketplaces at large. Firms and supervisors need to be vigilant on this 
point.

--- Página 281 ---
266 
Liquidity Risk
 Avoiding fragmentation 
 Regulators must avoid actions that lead to market fragmentation. This 
represents a balancing act, as it is generally beneficial to promote alterna-
tives in order to keep competition strong. But too much fragmentation 
has been shown through empirical studies to damage trading volumes 
and divide liquidity pools; this applies across asset classes and funding 
sources, and also includes off-balance sheet contracts. Wherever sub-
stitutes can be introduced, care must be taken to ensure that they are 
value-added and complementary, and not destructive. For instance, local 
government bonds (and the government yield curves they generate) play 
multiple roles: providing “risk free” safe haven investments (certainly for 
industrialized economies with solid investment-grade ratings); supplying 
price references for private sector financing issues and bank borrowings; 
providing a supply of securities for repurchase/reverse repurchase activi-
ties; and creating references and deliverables for listed and OTC deriva-
tives. Each one of these functions promotes liquidity in other asset and 
funding classes. Accordingly, it is vital for activity in government bonds to 
be as strong as possible. This means issuance cannot be spread too widely 
across issues, coupons, and maturities. Such an approach will almost cer-
tainly fragment the market and leave associated asset and liability mecha-
nisms in an uncertain state. In fact, it is preferable for national issuance 
to be concentrated on a handful of benchmark issues (with authorities 
“reopening” them as needed rather than issuing new tranches and creat-
ing greater market atomization). 
 Minimizing costs 
 It is well established, theoretically and empirically, that measures that 
reduce the cost burden of participating in a trading, investment, or fund-
ing market lead to an increase in activity – and, hence, liquidity. There is 
considerable evidence to demonstrate the positive effects of lower costs 
(for example transactions costs, stamp duties, and taxes) on activity levels 
(not just trading volumes, but also borrowing levels, investment activi-
ties, and so forth). Where regulators have the ability to eliminate unnec-
essary costs, they should be prepared to do so. 
 Harmonizing accounting treatment 
 Firms are periodically precluded from participating in a market or trans-
action (for example an investment, a funding or new issue transaction, 
or a derivatives trade) as a result of accounting rules. While there are 
often good reasons for particular accounting treatments, there are also

--- Página 282 ---
Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity Risk Management 
267
instances where rules are a vestige of past practice and may no longer be 
applicable to the current state of industry or markets. Whenever possible, 
rules should be harmonized or synchronized with the realities of the cor-
porate world of the 21st century. The removal of artificial barriers based 
on accounting, rather than economic, rules is almost certain to generate 
additional activity in specific market segments. 
 Reinforcing proper capital allocations 
 Global financial regulators have generally done an acceptable job in ensur-
ing that financial institutions preserve sufficient capital for core market 
and credit risks; the discipline is by now well established and appears to 
have served the financial community, and by extension all other indus-
trial and service sectors relying on the community, well. But, as the finan-
cial crisis demonstrated, the process is not yet complete: formal capital 
allocation must occur in support of other risks, most notably liquidity 
risk and operational risk. The lessons from financial dislocations of the 
past few years demonstrate that some types of financial institutions may 
not be providing adequate capital in support of their non-credit/market 
risks. Enactment of rules regarding the process (e.g., Basel III, Solvency 
II, Dodd-Frank, and similar efforts) must be considered as a matter of 
priority. 
 Providing selective lender of last resort support 
 Preserving our focus on the financial sector, we note that there is a defen-
sible argument to be made in ensuring that certain financial institu-
tions be granted undoubted access to a lender of last resort. The systemic 
stability that can be gained from making sure that the most significant 
liquidity conduits have a “backstop” is of considerable importance – as we 
collectively learned during the last financial crisis. 
 The main criticism of lender of last resort access is rightly one of moral 
hazard: financial institutions, knowing that they have support through a 
central bank or monetary authority, may behave recklessly in an attempt 
to maximize returns (including holding insufficient liquidity in order 
to boost profits). Equally, depositors who believe they are placing their 
funds in an institution with an implicit government guarantee may be 
less vigilant regarding the bank and its activities. This is a valid argument, 
meaning lender of last resort access should only be granted selectively, to 
those institutions that are “too big to fail” 2 and that do not appear to be 
deliberately managing their operations in a reckless manner. The gains 
that can be derived from a stable environment must surely outweigh the

--- Página 283 ---
268 
Liquidity Risk
potential costs of moral hazard problems and, in the event of a problem, 
the actual costs of interceding. 
 When  ex post regulatory intervention must occur, it should take the 
form of open market operations and liquidity injections into the finan-
cial system, as well as direct collateralized repos and loans to the troubled 
institution(s). 3 Where direct access is not possible or convenient (because 
it involves an institution that is “out of scope”), regulatory authorities 
should take any actions that can lead to private sector support or bailout. 
This is particularly true for securities firms that lack formal backstops, 
and may also be useful for certain private investment funds (as in the 
LTCM case). 
 The key point in relation to the topic above is not to insert regulators 
into the process to actively promote liquidity, but to have them consider 
structural reforms and measures that can further liberalize financial and 
physical asset and funding markets. Success will ultimately benefit the 
liquidity access of all companies. 
 Figure 12.1 summarizes our consideration of overarching micro and 
macro practices that can promote effective liquidity risk management. 
 In conclusion, we wish to reiterate that in the aftermath of the financial 
crisis, the singular importance of liquidity has become widely accepted. 
In an era of financial uncertainty, a firm must manage its liquidity dil-
igently, through a combination of internal best practices and external 
Conducting regular
inspections
Promoting
competition
Avoiding
fragmentation
Minimizing costs
Harmonizing 
accounting
treatment
Reinforcing capital
allocations
Providing selective
lender of last resort
support
Creating a sound
governance
framework
Implementing
proper measures and
reporting
Using tactical
controls
Developing a crisis
management process
Performing ongoing
reviews
Micro/internal
Macro/external
Effective
liquidity
risk 
management
 Figure 12.1   Towards effective liquidity risk management

--- Página 284 ---
Summary: The Future of Active Liquidity Risk Management 
269
support. The end goal should be to minimize, or avoid, the likelihood of 
disrupting access to cash resources. A firm must ultimately seek to pre-
serve its business franchise through the most severe financial stresses, 
emerging intact to continue prospering. Prudent, and active, liquidity 
risk management makes this goal achievable.

--- Página 285 ---
270
 Appendix : A Primer on Gap 
Management 
 Earlier in the book we described the importance of cash flow bucketing 
and analysis in the computation of the net cash balance of a firm. This 
practice is important  for all companies that have an interest in success-
fully managing their liquidity, but it is of course vitally important for 
those in the business of maturity transformation and liquidity provision, 
i.e., banks and other financial institutions. 
 As we have also noted, the management of interest rate risk is inti-
mately related to the management of funding risk, which is a central part 
of liquidity management. Gap management, which is a key tool in the 
analysis and balancing of rate risk, represents an important part of both 
rate risk management and liquidity analysis. In this brief primer we shall 
highlight some of the key points associated with gap management, pro-
viding several simple examples to help illustrate how it is used in practice. 
Many of these principles are, of course, applicable in the liquidity analy-
sis process, with the caveat that bucketing moves from contractual (or 
behavioral) maturities to expected cash inflows/outflows. 
 Interest rate activities 
 Banks are fundamentally focused on the impact of interest rates on their 
activities. Indeed, their business strategies are typically centered on their 
current and expected views of interest rates. The reasons for this are 
obvious: core banking activities, including investing, lending and fund-
ing, are all interest rate sensitive. Current and future net interest income 
(NII), which is simply interest income less interest expense, is impacted 
by interest rate changes. And the market value or net worth of a bank is 
ultimately impacted by NII. 
 Since interest rates are so fundamental to banking, a brief review of dura-
tion is helpful to set the stage for subsequent review of some elemental asset 
liability management (ALM)  measures, including gap analysis, duration gaps 
and earnings sensitivity. Figure A1.1 summarizes aspects of this framework. 
 Duration 
 Duration, a fundamental concept of the interest rate markets that 
has been in use for many decades, is a standard measure of the linear

--- Página 286 ---
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management 
271
price sensitivity of an asset or liability (or off-balance sheet contract) 
to changes in rates. In fact, we may regard duration as the cash flow 
weighted maturity of an asset, liability or contract – which, except for 
zero-coupon structures, is shorter than the final maturity. Although 
there are various formulae for computing duration (e.g., modified, 
Macaulay’s, and so on), the basic duration formula is given in (A1.1) as 
the sum of the time-weighted (t), discounted cash flows (CF), divided 
by the price (P), or 
 
t
Dur
t
cf
r
p
*
/ (1
) /
/ (1
t *
/ (1
∑
 
 We shall illustrate the computation in an example below. 
 Ultimately, duration indicates how much the price of a rate sensitive 
asset (RSA) or rate sensitive liability (RSL) will increase (decrease) for 
a small decrease (increase) in rates (e.g., up to several basis points). 
Since duration only captures the linear relationship over a relatively 
small rate movement, we need to adjust the overall computation if 
we want to measure the sensitivity of an RSA or RSL to an instanta-
neous large movement in rates (e.g., 25, 50 or more bps); this is done 
through a convexity adjustment. However, for basic purposes of sim-
ple rate change estimates in our discussion, duration is an adequate 
approximation. 
 Consider the following example: assume a bank is holding a four-year 
bond with a 6% annual coupon, that redeems at par. We can compute the 
bond’s duration using the data summarized in Table A1.1. 
 In this example the bond has a duration of 3.67 (versus a maturity 
of 4). Any estimate of price sensitivity will thus be a more accurate 
estimate than a pure examination of maturity. In practical terms the 
Interest Rates
Funding
Investing
Lending
Net Interest Income
Market Value Impact
Gap analysis
Duration gaps
Earnings sens
Duration
Measures
Rate Sensitive Banking Activities
 Figure A1.1  Interest rates, rate measures, and banking activities

--- Página 287 ---
272 
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management
duration indicates that if rates change by 1 basis point (bp), the price 
of the bond will change by 0.0367 points. If rates change by 10 bps, the 
price of the bond will change by 0.367 points. We now have a basic tool 
by which to estimate rate sensitive asset/liability price changes given rate 
movements. 
 Common measures 
 Let us now consider several common ALM measures, commencing first 
with gap analysis. Gap analysis, as noted earlier in the book, is a measure 
of the total rate sensitive assets (RSAs) and rate sensitive liabilities (RSLs) 
that reprice in a given time period, used to determine whether they are 
mismatched (recalling the subtle difference between rate gaps and liquidity 
gaps, where the former is based on repricing and the latter on expected net 
cash flows). The most granular approach examines mismatches at specific 
time intervals (“gaps” or “maturity buckets”). An extension of this process 
centers on so-called duration gaps, which is a measure of RSAs and RSLs 
based on their duration rather than their contractual maturity. A cumula-
tive effect based on the duration of the balance sheet and a forecast of rates 
can be computed to derive the change in market value or net worth of the 
bank. We can also consider earnings sensitivity, which is an enhanced gap 
analysis that takes account of embedded options and interest rate forecasts/
shocks to reveal sensitivity of bank NII to changing rates. 
 In basic gap analysis, a bank must first identify its RSAs and RSLs, 
i.e., all instruments whose price can be impacted by rate changes. An 
asset or liability is considered rate sensitive if during the selected gap 
interval:
 it matures 
 
●
 it represents an interim or partial principal payment 
 
●
 it can be repriced 
 
●
 For instance, a 0–30 day gap might feature the following RSAs and RSLs:
 Table A1.1  Sample duration calculation 
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Year 4
Total
CF
6
6
6
106
PV
5.66
5.34
5.04
83.96
100
PV/P
0.0566
0.0534
0.0504
0.8396
1.00
T * (PV/P)
0.0566
0.1068
0.1511
3.3585
Dur
3.673

--- Página 288 ---
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management 
273
 Maturing instruments or principal payments: 
 
●
 If an asset or liability matures within 30 days, the principal amount 
 
●
will be repriced. 
 Any full or partial principal payments within 30 days will be 
 
●
repriced. 
 Floating rate instruments: 
 
●
 If the index contractually changes within 30 days (e.g., 1 week or 
 
●
1 month EURIBOR), the asset or liability is rate sensitive. 
 The actual computation of a gap for any particular period t is straightfor-
ward and can be given by (A1.2): 
 
t
t
t
Gap
RSA
RSL
t
t
RSA
RSA
 
 It should be clear that assets/liabilities that fall outside the gap period are 
not included in the gap calculation. 
 Not surprisingly, RSAs and RSLs have a direct impact on NII, since these 
are the very contracts or instruments that generate interest income or 
expense. By extension, a bank can also compute a net interest margin 
(NIM), given simply as NII divided by earning assets. 
 Naturally, NII (and NIM) are affected by a series of factors, including:
 changes in the level of interest rates 
 
●
 changes in the composition of assets and liabilities 
 
●
 changes in the volume of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities 
 
●
(and hence the gap) 
 changes in the relationship between the yields on earning assets and 
 
●
rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities 
 In practice, a bank follows a series of steps in order to understand its 
sensitivity to rate risk, and how its NII and NIM are likely to fare as rates 
change. It does so by:
 developing an interest rate forecast. 
 
●
 selecting a series of “maturity buckets” or intervals for determining 
 
●
when assets and liabilities will reprice. 
 grouping assets and liabilities into these “buckets” 
 
●
 calculating the gap for each “bucket” 
 
●
 forecasting the change in net interest income given an assumed change 
 
●
in interest rates 
 Let us consider a simple example to illustrate.

--- Página 289 ---
274 
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management
 A European bank has the simplified balance sheet shown in Table A1.2: 
 Under this construct, we can easily determine that 
 NII = 
 
●
€78.5mm – €37.2mm = €41.3mm 
 NIM = 
 
●
€41.3mm / €850mm = 4.86% 
 Gap = 
 
●
€500mm – €600mm = –€100mm 
 Let us next assume that short-term rates increase by 100 bps, affecting 
all RSAs and RSLs as noted in Table A1.3: 
 Under this scenario, 
 NII = 
 
●
€83.5mm – €43.2mm = €40.3mm 
 NIM = 
 
●
€40.3mm / €850mm = 4.86% 
 Gap = 
 
●
€500mm – €600mm = –€100mm 
 Since the bank has been running a negative gap, more liabilities than 
assets reprice in the higher rate environment, meaning NIM and NII both 
decline. Not surprisingly, the reverse would occur if short-term rates fell 
100 bps. 
 Finally, let us assume that the mix of assets and liabilities changes so 
that the gap is smaller, as noted in Table A1.4: 
 Under this scenario, 
 Table A1.2  Sample European bank balance sheet 
Avg rate
€mm
Avg rate
€ mm
RSAs repricing in 
1 year
8%
500
RSLs repricing in 
1 year
4%
60
Assets not 
repricing in 1 year
11%
350
Liabs not repricing 
in 1 year
6%
220
Non-earning assets
150
Equity
80
Total assets
1000
Total Liabs+Equity
1000
 Table A1.3  Sample European bank balance sheet 2 
Avg rate
€ mm
Avg rate
€ mm
RSAs repricing in 
1 year
9%
500
RSLs repricing in 
1 year
5%
600
Assets not repricing 
in 1 year
11%
350
Liabs not repricing 
in 1 year
6%
220
Non-earning assets
150
Equity
80
Total assets
1000
Total Liabs+Equity
1000

--- Página 290 ---
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management 
275
 NII = 
 
●
€77.3mm – €38mm = €39.3mm 
 NIM = 
 
●
€39.3mm / €850mm = 4.62% 
 Gap = 
 
●
€540mm – €560mm = –€20mm 
 Although the gap is smaller – meaning rate risk is smaller – the bank’s 
earning power has declined. 
 An extension of the gap formula lets a bank quickly determine how 
interest rate changes affect NII (and NIM); in fact, changes in NII are 
directly proportional to the size of the gap. This is given in (A1.3): 
 
(
)
NII
r
RSA
RSL
Gap
* (
)
*
ΔNII
r
NII
* (
)
 
 Assume, for example, that a bank has RSAs of €500mm and RSLs of 
€520mm in the gap period. If rates rise by 100bps, the change in NII will 
be – €200,000 (e.g., –€20mm * 1%); conversely if rates fall by 100 bps, the 
change will be €200,000. Naturally, this approach includes simplifying 
assumptions, including:
 parallel rate change to all RSAs and RSLs, 
 
●
 instantaneous change at the beginning of each gap period. 
 
●
 These assumptions are not very realistic, but the formula provides for 
a “quick and dirty” estimate. Based on this discussion, some “rules of 
thumb” can be drawn:
 When RSAs and RSLs are equal, we may say that RSA/RSL is 1.0, mean-
 
●
ing the bank is perfectly matched. This indicates that for a given 
increase in rates it will lose on its liabilities and gain on its assets. 
 When RSA < RSL (RSA/RSL is < 1.0), the bank is running a negative gap 
 
●
or is liability sensitive. This also means that 
 the bank has an asset duration that is shorter than its liability dura-
 
●
tion, or 
 it has more rate sensitive liabilities than assets. 
 
●
 the NII will generally fall (rise) when interest rates rise (fall). 
 
●
 Table A1.4  Sample European bank balance sheet 3 
Avg rate
€ mm
Avg rate € mm
RSAs repricing in 
1 year
8%
540
RSLs repricing in 
1 year
4%
560
Assets not repricing 
in 1 year
11%
310
Liabs not repricing 
in 1 year
6%
260
Non-earning assets
150
Equity
80
Total assets
1000
Total Liabs+Equity
1000

--- Página 291 ---
276 
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management
 When RSA > RSL (RSA/RSL is > 1.0) the bank is running a positive gap 
 
●
or is asset sensitive, indicating that 
 the bank has an asset duration that is longer than its liability 
 
●
 duration, or 
 the bank has more rate sensitive assets than liabilities. 
 
●
 the NII will generally rise (fall) when interest rate rises (fall). 
 
●
 The decision to hold a positive or negative gap will depend on the bank’s 
expectation of interest rates and its overall business mix and strategy. 
When rates are expected to rise, a bank should reduce its negative gap or 
increase its positive gap. When rates are expected to fall, a bank should 
increase its negative gap or decrease its positive gap. In general, the sum-
mary relationships in Table A1.5 may be said to hold true: 
 In order to reduce rate risk, a bank must narrow its gap – meaning it 
must become “less negative” or “less positive”, depending on its current 
positioning. For instance, if a bank is liability sensitive (e.g., negative gap 
or RSA/RSL < 1.0), it should attempt to increase RSAs and decrease RSLs 
and vice-versa. Naturally, to increase rate risk it must widen its gap. 
 The range of available solutions can be summarized as per Table A1.6: 
 Table A1.5  Relationships between gap, rates and net interest income 
Gap Position
Changes in 
Interest 
Rates
Changes 
in Interest 
Income
Changes 
in Interest 
Expense
Change in NII
Positive
Increase
Increase
Increase
Increase
Positive
Decrease
Decrease
Decrease
Decrease
Negative
Increase
Increase
Increase
Increase
Negative
Decrease
Decrease
Decrease
Decrease
Zero
Increase
Increase
Increase
None
Zero
Decrease
Decrease
Decrease
None
 Table A1.6  Solution to increase/decrease asset/liability sensitivity 
Objective
Solutions
Reduce asset sensitivity
 Buy longer-term securities. 
 Lengthen the maturities of loans. 
 Move from floating-rate loans to term loans. 
Increase asset sensitivity
 Buy short-term securities. 
 Shorten loan maturities. 
 Make more loans on a floating-rate basis. 
Reduce liability sensitivity
 Pay premiums to attract longer-term deposits. 
 Issue long-term subordinated debt. 
Increase liability sensitivity
 Pay premiums to attract short-term deposits. 
 Borrow more via non-core purchased liabilities.

--- Página 292 ---
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management 
277
 It comes as no surprise that some of these actions will also have an 
impact on a bank’s liquidity strategy and position. Essentially, any action 
that affects the maturity (duration) profile of assets or liabilities will 
affect the liquidity of the bank. So, if a bank wants to increase its long-
term loan growth by funding strictly with short-term deposits, it will be 
incurring additional liquidity risk. The issue to be considered is whether 
the explicit spread between the long-term loans and short-term deposits 
(in a normal positive yield curve environment) compensates sufficiently 
for the incremental liquidity risk taken. Extending the discussion, we 
may say that increasing liability sensitivity by boosting short-term depos-
its also increases the bank’s exposure to short-term liability withdrawals 
(i.e., intensifies potential liquidity risk) in an unstable market; reducing 
asset sensitivity by making longer term loans may reduce liquidity risk if 
these loans are term funded, and so on. The main point to stress is that 
development of a bank’s strategy for generating NII based on an increase 
or decrease in its gapping should not be done in isolation – it must logi-
cally also include a discussion of its strategy for dealing with liquidity 
issues. 
 Continuing our discussion, a duration gap can be computed by exam-
ining the durations of the RSAs and RSLs (recalling that duration is addi-
tive, and it is possible to sum across time and maturity). This is given in 
(A1.4): 
 
gap
RSA
Dur
Dur
gap
R
⎛
⎞
RSL
RSL
Dur
*
R
−
RSA
DurR
⎛
⎞
⎛
⎞
RSL
RSL
DurR
⎝
⎠
RSA
⎜
⎟
⎜
⎟
RSA
⎛
⎞
⎛
⎞
⎛
⎞
⎛
⎞
 
 This formula indicates that the duration gap is equal to the duration 
of the RSAs, less the duration of the RSLs, adjusted by the weighting 
of the RSAs and RSLs (or total assets (TA) and total liabilities (TL)). A 
simple and powerful extension of this formula, shown in (A1.5), allows 
us to calculate the change in the bank’s net worth (as a percentage of 
assets) for a given change in rates. 
 
Δ
= −
Δ
NW
Assets
Dur
r
ga
r
p
a * (
)
+ r
 
 For instance, if a bank estimates its duration gap at 1.7, it would expect 
its net worth (as a percentage of assets) to decline by 0.17% for every 
10bps increase in rates. Naturally, this is to be regarded as a general esti-
mate only.

--- Página 293 ---
278 
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management
 Earnings sensitivity is another tool in understanding ALM and earn-
ings. Under this framework a bank can increase the sophistication of its 
analysis by:
 including embedded options that can potentially alter the bank’s cash 
 
●
flows – a process which is ignored by the basic gap analysis described 
earlier. 
 incorporating interest rates change by different amounts at different 
 
●
times by running multiple “what-if” scenarios. 
 Earnings sensitivity generates the potential variation in NII across dif-
ferent interest rate environments, based on different assumptions about 
balance sheet composition, when embedded options will be exercised, 
the timing of repricings, and so forth. It essentially demonstrates the 
potential volatility in earnings across each environment; ultimately, the 
greater the potential variation in earnings (earnings at risk), the greater 
the amount of risk being assumed by a bank. 
 The process of creating an earnings sensitivity matrix is based on the 
following steps:
 Step 1: Develop multiple interest rate forecasts and select one as the 
 
●
future evolution of rates; this may span 1, 2, 3, etc., years. 
 Step 2: Compute the “enhanced” periodic and cumulative gap by mak-
 
●
ing detailed assumptions about when any embedded options might be 
exercised and how they may change cash flows, assets, liabilities, e.g., 
 Option to refinance a loan 
 
●
 Call option on a bond in the investment portfolio 
 
●
 Depositors option to withdraw funds prior to maturity 
 
●
 Cap (maximum) rate on a floating-rate loan 
 
●
 Note: The more detailed the analysis on optionality, the more relevant 
the results. 
 Step 3: Apply the rate changes to the enhanced gap measure for each 
 
●
relevant time period to determine the NII. 
 Step 4: Determine the bank’s NII earnings sensitivity by computing 
 
●
the change in NII for different shocks (e.g., +/– 100, 200 bps, etc.). 
 These shock scenarios can be applied against any relevant risk limits. 
Consider the following simple example based on the periodic and cumu-
lative option-adjusted gap and a sample interest rate path (most likely 
versus market implied), as shown in Table A1.7 and Figure A1.2.

--- Página 294 ---
Appendix : A Primer on Gap Management 
279
 The NII results for the next year based on the most likely (ML) inter-
est rate scenario can be determined for the stated gap and can then be 
shocked to extremes of +/– 300 bps to provide an earnings sensitivity 
range in terms of NII. The process can be repeated for year 2 scenarios 
and so forth. Any ALCO or Board limits can be included to determine 
whether warnings or breaches occur. Decisions about the proper periodic 
or cumulative gap should take account of the construction of the bank’s 
balance sheet, paying close attention to liquidity features and the ability 
to realize cash quickly and cost-effectively. 
 It is important to remember that measures such as duration, gap analy-
sis, duration gaps, earnings sensitivity and the like are simply tools that 
banks can use to help them gauge rate risk and, by extension, aspects of 
liquidity risk. These are tools with assumptions, and so must be used care-
fully. Naturally, there is no single optimal solution to what a bank’s gap 
should be – every bank is different. The ultimate answer will be based on 
a bank’s interest rate forecast, business strategy and revenue diversifica-
tion, funding sources and risk appetite (including both market risk and 
liquidity risk). 
 Table A1.7  Sample option-adjusted gap 
Total
3 Months 
or less
>3–6 
Months
>6–12 
Months
>1–3 
Years
>3–5 
Years
>5–10 
Years
>10–20 
Years
>20 Years
GAP
–20,252
–6,249
11,053
43,582 49,200 71,748
51,918
–201,000
Cumulative
–20,252
–26,501 –15,448
28,134
77,334
149,082 201,00
4.5
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1
2
3
4
5
Most Likely
Mkt Implied
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Interest rate scenario 1 over next 12 months
 Figure A1.2  Sample interest rate scenario

--- Página 295 ---
280
 Notes 
 1 Liquidity Risk Defined 
 1.  The specific term “liquidation risk” is sometimes used to denote the risk of selling 
an asset at a loss. 
 2.  Although the value of derivative transactions must now be reported on a firm’s 
balance sheet and income statement under some accounting systems, the nature 
of future commitments and obligations under such contracts is still generally 
oblique. 
 3.  Financial operating risks, such as securities and foreign exchange settlements, 
delivery of cash against securities, and so forth, comprise a separate category of 
operational risk that can also impact liquidity risk. For instance, failure by a bank 
to receive payments on securities that have already been delivered can result in a 
cash deficit that needs to be funded on a short-term basis. 
 4.  Note that at least one major study has suggested that the interbank funding spread 
featured two different risk components: at the beginning of the first phase of the 
crisis (October–December 2007) credit risk was the dominant factor, while after 
the Lehman collapse in September 2008 the liquidity risk component moved to the 
forefront. 
 5.  Unfortunately, the track of record of the public rating agencies in properly evaluat-
ing structured credit has been shown to be poor at best. Bad modelling, conflicts 
of interest and slow reaction times meant that many of the AAA-rated securities 
backed by mortgages should never have carried such ratings. Furthermore, the 
record of the agencies in identifying companies with liquidity pressures (leading 
ultimately to financial distress and either bankruptcy or acquisition) has also been 
weak, to wit major “misses” on Penn Central, Drexel, WorldCom, First Executive, 
Enron, Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, among others. 
 2 Liquidity and Financial Operations 
 1.  Interestingly, half of all US bank failures between 1984 and 1989 occurred within 
institutions that would have been considered “adequately capitalized” under the 
BIS 1988 Capital Accord definitions; capital alone is thus not enough to prevent a 
firm from failing. 
 2.  We note that sovereign organizations, though not necessarily concerned with value 
maximization, are often equally interested in minimizing financial problems. 
 3.  Indeed, in an effort to manage greater funding liquidity risks, some securities firms 
arrange for committed bank line facilities from the banking sector; this gives them 
some measure of safety in the event the short-term markets prove challenging. 
 3 Sources of Liquidity 
 1.  It is true, of course, that banks active in the repo and reverse repo market often run 
“matched books” so that they do not face an excess of interest rate risk or curve 
risk. Thus, if a bank allows its reverses to roll off in order to generate additional 
cash, it must either rebalance its own repurchase agreement position by construct-

--- Página 296 ---
Notes 
281
ing appropriate interest rate risk hedges or allowing the repos to roll off as well; if 
it selects the latter it will, of course, face a liquidity constraint of its own as it will 
have lost a source of funding. However, the securities it receives back from the repo 
close-outs can then be sold in the marketplace to generate additional cash. Such a 
process is common when a bank is shrinking its matched book, which often occurs 
prior to quarter-end financial reporting periods. 
 2.   For instance, in 1996 the Bank of England introduced the Sterling Stock Liquidity 
Regime (SSLR), which broadened the liquidity requirements for commercial banks 
with a large retail presence. Under the SSLR banks must supplement the traditional 
cash inflow/outflow gap/ladder approach (which we discuss in Chapter 8) with 
a portfolio of liquid sterling assets that can be used to cover any potential loss of 
wholesale funding. (Note that a separate process, the Mismatch Liquidity Regime, 
which permits committed funds and a broader array of assets to be used in comput-
ing the net liquidity position for each ladder maturity, was introduced in 1999 for 
non-SSLR banks,. ) 
 3.  In fact, certain empirical research (see Schlingemann, Stulz, and Waking, 2001, for 
example) suggests that a firm is most likely to sell portions of its business that are 
liquid, or those that are unrelated/immaterial to core operations or poor perform-
ers, and far less likely to sell portions that are illiquid. 
 4.  Note that similar local CP markets exist in other countries as well: Canada, for 
instance, features a relatively active marketplace for unsecured C$-denominated 
CP. 
 5.  Investor demand for A-2/P-2 and A-3/P-3 issues is very small (less than 5 percent 
of total outstanding during normal market conditions) and can disappear very 
quickly, particularly during times of market stress or general credit deterioration, 
when investors are less eager to speculate on short-term credit spread movements. 
When this occurs, lower rated issuers with outstanding notes in the market may 
work with their dealing banks to “manage out” of the CP market (without causing 
any disruption in their operations or creating any negative publicity) by tapping 
alternative facilities, such as bank borrowings. Since the crisis of 2007–2008, the 
market for lower-rated CP has essentially become dormant . 
 6.  A small number of CP programs are supported by bank letters of credit or are struc-
tured as asset-backed programs, and would thus be considered “secured.” 
 7.  Even deposits with longer maturities can indirectly affect a bank’s funding. For 
example, institutional investors that sell medium-term bank deposits in the sec-
ondary market at a discount in order to retrieve their capital can send a negative 
signal to other low-risk institutional investors, making rollovers of other funds 
more difficult. 
 8.  It is worth emphasizing that short-term liabilities (regardless of source) have an 
important role to play in the management of liquidity. In a general sense, we may 
say that when short-term liabilities (STLs) > short term assets (STAs) a company 
will be under some degree of liquidity pressure. It must therefore either increase its 
long-term liabilities (LTLs) to redeem the STLs, or it must convert long-term assets 
(LTAs) to STAs in order to meet STLs as they come due. Naturally, if STLs < STAs, 
there is no particular pressure, as enough STAs remain on hand to cover STL obliga-
tions. The issue at hand, then, is the dynamism of a company’s STLs – a company 
must understand how they behave and whether they can change rapidly in the face 
of changing markets. 
 9.  Euronote facilities generally permit issuance in the one to ten-year sector (com-
plementing the shorter term issuance provided by ECP) and are often backed by 
bank tender panels, which absorb unsold notes and so provide contingent funding. 
Tender panel facilities are generally committed or transferable to other banks upon 
agreement by all parties.

--- Página 297 ---
282 
Notes
 10.  Some firms have opted to follow the concept of cash capital as a way of financing 
long-term assets, particularly those that are illiquid in nature, as well as certain 
“critical” accounts, such as haircuts. Though the definition of cash capital can 
vary, it can include equity, long-term debt, synthetic structures which provide the 
equivalent of greater than 1 year funding, and so forth. 
 11.  Some securitizations are liability, rather than asset, based and are intended to 
remove particular types of risks from the liability side of the balance sheet. The 
concepts are similar, although we shall not consider them in further detail. 
 4 Funding Liquidity Risk 
 1.  It is worth noting that such reserves may have to be held in low/no-yield assets, 
which reverts to the issue of risk/return trade-off and enterprise value maximiza-
tion. 
 2.  Financial mismanagement has been at the heart of significant corporate problems 
over the past few decades, including those associated with Enron, Tyco, WorldCom, 
Swissair, and many others. Many problems ultimately manifested themselves in 
the form of severe liquidity pressure. 
 3.  Bankers Trust serves as an interesting example of a firm that was plagued by rep-
utational problems. It was ultimately subsumed by Deutsche Bank when it was 
unable to overcome the crisis of confidence. Although not strictly a liquidity prob-
lem, the bank’s well-publicized client derivative lawsuits and settlements (such 
as Procter & Gamble, Gibson Greetings, and Sandoz) in the early 1990s, coupled 
with nearly $500 million in losses in Russia in 1998, eroded depositor and investor 
confidence in the bank and its management. The firm was downgraded on various 
occasions and was unable to generate a competitive cost of funds as a result of its 
problems. Deutsche Bank ultimately stepped in to acquire the bank when it was 
clear that further growth was becoming virtually impossible. 
 4.  For instance, Gatev and Straham (2001) have found that bank assets (securities and 
bank lines of credit) increase more rapidly when short-term credit spreads (that is, 
commercial paper less Treasury bills) widen, and that the quantity of assets funded 
with deposits increases during a crisis period. The study has also found that banks 
have a comparative advantage over other financiers in extending loans during a 
crisis, as the yields they pay on flight-to-quality deposits decrease as credit spreads 
widen. Credit extensions, however, are not granted uniformly; that is, they are not 
granted to idiosyncratic borrowers who might wish to draw down based on their 
own credit circumstances, but to systematic borrowers, who draw down based 
primarily on the availability of market liquidity. Banks can thus lend to highly 
rated systematic borrowers during times of market stress, suggesting some “win-
ners” exist when exogenous forces are otherwise proving disruptive. The reverse is 
also shown to be true: when markets regain their balance and depositors withdraw 
funds to reinvest in higher yield alternatives, banks are no longer flush with cash 
and thus scale back on the highly rated systematic lending they once engaged in. 
 5 Asset Liquidity Risk 
 1.  For instance, there is empirical evidence that in some markets futures and the 
underlying cash assets they reference complement each other, promoting strong 
liquidity in both sectors – Eurodollar futures and Eurodollar deposits are one 
example of this. In other cases, futures and cash are independent and fraction-
alized because they act as true substitutes. In such instances one of the instru-
ments might exhibit a great deal more liquidity. In Japan, for example, the 10-year

--- Página 298 ---
Notes 
283
Japanese Government Bond (JGB) futures contract is far more liquid than the 
underlying benchmark bond. The same can occur with corporate or sovereign 
bond issues. If the issuer offers too many different maturities as part of its debt 
management program, it might fractionalize the market so much that insufficient 
liquidity builds in any single issue. Alternatively, if it issues only a few maturities, it 
might fail to generate enough interest among investors and be unable to construct 
a meaningful yield curve. Balancing these two “fungibility forces” is not an easy 
task. 
 2.  Most institutional OTC markets are quote-driven, while many public equity mar-
kets are order-driven (or hybrid). 
 3.  Similar spread differentials between on- and off-the-run securities have been 
observed in other asset classes during a variety of market conditions. For instance, 
off-the-run asset-backed securities might trade at a spread of +4–5 bps to the on-
the-run asset-backed benchmark during normal market conditions, but as much 
as +40 bps in poor conditions; the same has been observed for investment grade 
bonds. Off-the-run high-yield bonds, in turn, might normally trade at +10–20 
bps to the high yield on-the-run benchmark, and in excess of +50–75 bps in poor 
 conditions. 
 4.  A company will only lose ownership of the asset if it defaults on the terms of the 
collateralized financing transaction: that is, it fails to pay timely principal and 
interest or breaches a covenant. 
 6 Liquidity Spirals and Financial Distress 
 1.  There are various academic theories about the underlying causes of bank runs. 
For instance, Diamond and Dybvig (1983) posit a model where banks are provid-
ers of liquidity insurance to depositors who may decide to flee based on random 
events; Chari and Jagannathan (1988) focus on a model where systemic risks may 
be derived from idiosyncratic risks that lead to bank runs; Gorton (1988) assumes 
that bank runs are recession-related and tied directly to corporate and business fail-
ures. Despite different models and views, empirical and anecdotal evidence sug-
gest that bank runs tend to be driven by institutional, rather than retail, depositors 
because institutions have better access to information and less insurance coverage. 
The growing level of interbank and off-balance sheet activity, and the ease by which 
contagion can spread to other banks in the system, might exacerbate the runs. 
 2.  Although some facilities contain material adverse change clauses giving funding 
banks the option to opt out if the credit environment has deteriorated enough to 
pose a financial risk, such clauses are rarely invoked; private “restructuring” may 
be a preferred alternative. 
 3.  Credit extensions by banks can accelerate during stressed times as companies draw 
down facilities (such as during the 1998 Russia/hedge fund crisis, when credit 
expanded by 30 percent). The main issues center on whether deposits flee or are 
attracted, and whether banks are willing to assume the additional credit risk. Large 
banking institutions can often attract deposits, but the same is not necessarily true 
for small or mid-sized banks. 
 4.  In some national systems regulators limit or prohibit the amount of credit that can 
be extended to rapidly deteriorating firms, which would exacerbate the problem. 
 5.  It is important to note that liquidity problems are not the only reason a company 
might enter into a state of financial distress. Difficulties related to earnings, asset 
quality, overall leverage, or strategy, for example, can be equally damaging and 
might also induce a state of distress. While these are all important, they are outside 
the scope of this text.

--- Página 299 ---
284 
Notes
 7 Case Studies in Liquidity Mismanagement 
 1.  In 1984 Continental Illinois, which was heavily reliant on wholesale and interna-
tional markets for its funding, was unable to halt interbank deposit withdrawals 
fuelled by news of problems within the bank’s emerging market and energy loan 
portfolios. As liquidity drained away, a consortium of 29 banks and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation interceded with a $7.5 billion rescue package that 
reinjected cash into the bank; this was supplemented by a further $4.5 billion of 
borrowings from the Federal Reserve’s discount window. The bailout was consid-
ered necessary as the possible disruptions from a large bank failure were deemed to 
be too great. 
 2.  The reasons for the liquidity problems varied, but the end result was always 
the same: extreme difficulty accessing funds, resulting in very high funding 
costs. The Bank of New York suffered a large liquidity deficit in 1985 through 
operational errors, Salomon Brothers through the Treasury bond auction scan-
dal in 1991, and Citibank through massive commercial real estate write-downs 
in 1991. 
 3.  Although the October 1987 stock market crash was caused by a number of different 
factors, including excess leverage and speculation, and weakening economic condi-
tions, the fall was exacerbated by the use of portfolio insurance, which involved 
selling assets (such as individual stocks or index futures contracts) into a falling 
market. The estimated $100 billion-plus of portfolio insurance programs created 
greater market instability on the downside and converted two-way flows into large 
one-way flows; the dynamic replication of portfolios via portfolio insurance called 
for selling more stock or index futures contracts as prices fell, injecting more selling 
pressure into the market and creating a self-fulfilling downward spiral. During the 
immediate pre-crash period, some $12 billion of index rebalancing was required, 
but only $4 billion was executed. By the time the crash was in full motion, the 
pent-up selling forces were unleashed: when the cash market faced delayed open-
ings, the rebalancing programs were shifted to index futures, which exacerbated 
the fall. Liquidity eventually became so impaired that rebalancing could no longer 
be undertaken; portfolio insurance techniques were widely criticized in the after-
math. Circuit breakers, designed to avoid market free-falls, were eventually insti-
tuted and remain in place in various markets to the present time. 
 4.  Following Mexican bank privatizations in 1991 and 1992, the sector entered a phase 
of rapid asset growth; indiscriminate lending led ultimately to deteriorating asset 
quality, which strained bank revenues. This was compounded by a very heavy reli-
ance on domestic and offshore interbank deposits (63 percent of all funding) rather 
than more stable retail deposits. When the Mexican government devalued the peso 
by 56 percent in late 1994, most major banks suffered a rapid, and significant, loss 
of funds as interbank depositors exited. The ensuing losses left many banks in a 
weakened state; many smaller institutions were forced to close down or merge, 
and the government bailed out several larger banks (through the deposit insurance 
company and central bank). 
 5.  Caprio and Klingebiel (1999) record 112 systemic banking crises in 93 countries 
between the 1970s and late 1990s, many of them the result of significant liquidity 
risk difficulties. Importantly, the authors indicate that such crises have impacted 
developed, as well as developing, nations; countries such as the US, UK, Spain, 
Finland, and Sweden appear to have been just as susceptible to systemic problems 
as emerging market systems. 
 6.  Kidder Peabody, Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette, Lehman, Nomura, JP Morgan, Morgan 
Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Salomon, UBS, Bear Stearns, and Prudential were all lenders 
to Askin Capital.

--- Página 300 ---
Notes 
285
 7.  In January 1995 Orange County sued Merrill for $2.4 billion, claiming it “wan-
tonly and callously” sold the county risky securities in violation of state and fed-
eral laws. Orange County claimed  ultra vires , saying that it was acting out of its 
legal scope and that the transactions were unsuitable. County bondholders also 
sued Merrill and Citron for false disclosure in the July 1994 bond prospectus, and 
suits were filed against Morgan Stanley, Nomura, and CSFB for their role in grant-
ing excessive amounts of leverage. All of the banks initially denied any wrongdo-
ing, but eventually settled out of court: Merrill paid $437 million, Morgan Stanley 
$70 million, CSFB $52 million, and Nomura $48 million. Separately, the courts 
determined that Citron was to blame for the flawed strategy; Citron pleaded guilty 
to six felony counts related to making misleading statements in selling securities, 
falsifying accounting records and redirecting investment funds (not for losing the 
$1.7  billion). 
 8.  To be sure, many banks were acting in self-interest; this was not a public bailout, 
obviously, but a reorganization with creditors risking $3.6 billion of their share-
holders’ funds to avoid a catastrophe. The Street’s risk exposures were so large 
that it is likely that many players would have been severely damaged without the 
bailout. 
 9.  Many major banks gave LTCM the leverage – repos, derivatives, and credit facili-
ties – on very liberal terms, essentially mispricing their risk in order to secure a 
portion of the fund’s commission-based business. They also lent without good 
disclosure (contrary to standard credit operating procedures), opted not to require 
upfront collateral, and relied too heavily on their own flawed models. In some 
instances they attempted to replicate LTCM’s own positions, injecting the same 
illiquidity into their own books. 
 10.  For instance, exposure to LTCM caused UBS to lose $690 million, the Bank of 
Italy $100 million, Credit Suisse $100 million, Dresdner $145 million, Sumitomo 
Bank $100 million, and so on. Broader market dislocations arising from vola-
tility, illiquidity, and forced selling in other asset classes generated additional 
losses: CSFB reported losses of $1.3 billion in Russia, including nearly $640 mil-
lion in rouble forwards purchased via the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange 
to hedge rouble exposure; Citibank lost $60 million on Russia and $300 million 
on its arbitrage positions; Merrill lost $1.5 billion, mostly on spread widening 
affecting very large, and often illiquid, portfolios of corporate bonds and pre-
ferred stock; Goldman reported proprietary trading losses of $650 million across 
various markets; and so on. 
 11.  SAG featured 72,000 workers, including 21,000 in Switzerland, far more than any 
other carrier operating similar fleet size and routes, and its employees were among 
the highest paid in the entire industry. It also incurred additional expenses from 
its inconvenient dual hub system (Swissair/Zurich, CrossAir/Basel). 
 12.  Readers interested in a broader review of the details of the case from a corporate 
governance perspective may wish to consult the discussion in Banks (2004a). 
 13.  Including LJM1, LJM2, JEDI 1, JEDI 2, Chewco, and Raptors I-IV. 
 14.  Andersen, Enron’s external auditor and architect of the partnerships (for which it 
earned many millions of dollars in fees), indicated that it had not accounted for 
the SPEs correctly; as a result of errors early in the process, the SPEs were not con-
solidated on Enron’s balance sheet as they should have been, forcing the restate-
ments. Many of the SPE transactions between Enron and the LJM1, LJM2, and 
Chewco partnerships were arranged because the company could not, or would 
not, do them with third parties; the end-game in all cases appears to have been 
financial window dressing rather than genuine risk transfer. 
 15.  There was fallout in other sectors as well: external auditor Andersen eventually 
failed under the weight of criminal obstruction of justice charges, and various

--- Página 301 ---
286 
Notes
banks and law firms that assisted in the creation of a number of special, and ulti-
mately illegal, transactions were fined and sanctioned. 
 16.  http://companyinfo.northernrockassetmanagement.co.uk/downloads/results/ 
res2006PR_AnnualReportAndAccounts.pdf, p.2. 
 17.  At least some blame for the Northern Rock crisis must also be attributed to the weak 
regulatory structure in the UK at the time, which spilt duties between the Bank 
of England and the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Ex-post analysis suggests 
that the FSA knew about Northern Rock’s liquidity problems at an earlier stage but 
did not act. There is also evidence of lack of coordination and mismanagement of 
decision-making. Furthermore, the deposit protection scheme was antiquated and 
at least somewhat flawed, and the regulatory framework lacked any mechanism to 
deal with the unwinding of troubled banks; much of the regulatory response was 
ad-hoc in nature. As a result, other troubled banks, including RBS, Bradford and 
Bingley, and Lloyds TSB, had to be wholly or partly nationalized when they ran 
into trouble. 
 18.  “Banking Reform – Protecting Depositors,” Discussion Paper, HM Treasury, 
October 11, 2007. 
 19.  Rather curiously, the Lehman Treasury “roadshow” material, presented in July 
2008 by the bank as it attempted to broaden and strengthen its funding, con-
tained an appendix referencing “lessons learned from the Bear Stearns liquidity 
event.” Apparently, sufficient lessons were not learned. 
 20.  http://oversight.house.gov/images/stories/Hearings/110th_Congress/ 
Fuld_
Statement.pdf 
 8 Measuring Liquidity Risk 
 1.  Liquidity ratios are an important aspect of overall financial analysis and bank-
ruptcy prediction; empirical research on bankruptcies suggests that the most 
important financial variables with predictive capabilities include leverage, liquid-
ity, profitability, earnings volatility, and company size. 
 2.  “Hot money” is characterized by a perfectly elastic supply curve, meaning it is 
extremely sensitive to interest rate levels and changes. 
 3.  Duration can be measured in a number of different forms, including Macaulay’s 
duration and modified duration. For a standard fixed income instrument, these 
are given as: 
2
1
1
*
(1
)
*
)
(
)
n)
Dur
y)
n
C
y
y
y
2
(1
Dur (
P
⎡
⎤
1
2c
nC
nM
2
=
* ⎢
⎥
1
2
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
1
2
n
n
(1
)
⎡
⎤
⎡
⎤
1c
c
nC
nM
2
+
+
+
+
1
2
)
⎣
⎦
)
y
y
y
y
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
⎥
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
1
2
n
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
)
(1
)
(1
1
2
(1
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
)
(1
1
2
(1
⎛
⎞
100
C
⎜
⎟
100
⎛
⎞
⎛
⎞
100 −
⎡
⎤
1
1
⎝
⎠
y
⎜
⎟
⎜
⎟
100
y
+
⎥
1
⎤
1
1 −
(1
(1
⎣
⎦
y
(1
)
(1
)
=
 where  C is semi-annual coupon interest,  y is the semi-annual yield,  n is the number 
of semi-annual periods, and  M is the maturity value of the bond (generally par). 
These can be supplemented by measures of convexity, or the change in duration 
for a change in yield, which is important in determining the sensitivity of cash 
flows to large changes in rates:

--- Página 302 ---
Notes 
287
 
2
1
(
1)
(
1)
(1
)
(1
)
n
n)
t
2
t
t t
C
n n
M
(
1)
(
1)
1)
(
Cvx
y
y
)
(1
)
(1
2
=
1)
(
1)
(
+
2
(
)
t
2
=
)
(1
(1
2
(1
2
∑
 
 4.  Interestingly, a survey by IOSCO (2002) found that many firms at the turn of 
the millennium still did not regularly measure commitments or other off-balance 
sheet contingencies. 
 5.  Note that, while there is no precise definition of the “correct” maturity buckets to 
use, and this definition remains at the discretion of individual institutions, many 
appear to focus on the following buckets as being most relevant: overnight, next 
day, 7 days, 14 days, 1 month, 2, months, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 3 years, 
5 years, and 5+ years. 
 6.  The essential maturity transformation function played by banks and other finan-
cial institutions necessarily means that contractual short-term cash flows will be 
large, but may not necessarily be quite as large when considered on a behavioural 
basis, as those holding the liability cash flows may be quite happy to continue 
holding them through extensions, rollovers, and so forth. 
 7.  Not surprisingly, banks must be able to adequately model the behaviour of these 
types of liabilities, so that they can understand how much funding they have 
under different scenarios. As we might expect, during stressed market situations, 
the “stickiness” of liabilities may change, with withdrawals or lack of rollovers 
accelerating versus some “historical norm.” 
 8.  See Kyle (1995), for instance. 
 9.  Note that spreads can also be measured in other forms, including the realized 
spread, or the differential between the weighted average bid–offer for executed 
trades over time, and the effective spread, or the actual transaction price incorpo-
rating the direction of price movements. 
 10.  It is worth noting that dealing can occur within the full bid–offer spread (such as 
limit orders and guarantees) so friction may be overstated; in order to avoid this 
overstatement, a half spread (bid–offer/2, or quoted mid-market point prior to a 
trade) can be used as a proxy. 
 11.  There is a large body of practical, empirical, and theoretical literature on VAR, 
which the interested reader may wish to consult; Jorion (1996) serves as an excel-
lent primer. In general terms we note that “standard” parametric VAR (or variance/
covariance VAR) relies on use of a multivariate distribution of asset returns and 
a variance/covariance matrix that is specified by time series returns. Volatilities 
and correlations may be estimated through historical processes (and may be expo-
nentially weighted to give more recent observations greater weight in the sample), 
or they may be approximated through volatility estimation techniques (such as 
GARCH). The resulting parametric VAR, which is a multiple of the standard devia-
tion of the distribution of portfolio returns, is simple to implement but cannot 
accommodate non-linear instruments (or can only do so crudely, through the use 
of delta approximation techniques.) 
 A second approach, the historical simulation VAR, is useful when the observed 
distribution of returns cannot be accommodated by a parametric approach. Under 
this framework, historical returns for assets in the portfolio are sampled, a time 
series of portfolio returns is simulated, and the appropriate confidence level VAR 
is determined. This process does not rely on assumptions about the shape of the 
distribution or estimates of volatility and correlation for individual assets; how-
ever, it requires a long history of data (and might be questionable for any data

--- Página 303 ---
288 
Notes
regime shifts). From a regulatory perspective, the BIS requires banks to perform a 
VAR computation based on the method of its choosing, adjusted to the 99 percent 
confidence level and a ten-day liquidation horizon, and scaled by a multiplier of 3 
(which represents a safety cushion). The process also requires a regimen of stress 
testing, backtesting of results, input parameter updates, and appropriate qualita-
tive standards and controls. While the aim is constructive and well-intended, it 
has shortcomings, including some mentioned in this chapter. Sophisticated finan-
cial institutions rarely rely on standard VAR as their only means of measuring and 
managing market risk (and, by extension, aspects of liquidity risk). 
 12.  Readers interested in an excellent overview of alternative LAVAR approaches 
(e.g., Almgren-Chriss, Jarrow-Subramanian, Bangia, Diebold, Schuermann and 
Stroughair) may wish to consult Erzegovesi (2002). 
 13.  Note that it is common to define stress testing as an integrated, multivariable test, 
while scenario analysis is a future state based on the movement of a single vari-
able; each scenario analysis calls for holding constant all variables except one. 
 14.  While standard VAR data sets and computational frameworks based on historical 
data may lack the relevant “fat tail” characteristics, extreme value theory (EVT), 
which focuses on the tail of the distribution, tends to provide additional and valu-
able information about the low probability/high severity events. 
 15.  It is interesting to consider just how the “dominoes toppled” during the crisis. 
Whilst the genesis of the crisis had appeared much earlier, e.g., during the first 
half of the decade, as loose monetary policy had caused a very significant real 
estate bubble to develop, the first signs of trouble came in early- to mid-2007. In 
April 2007, New Century and American Home Mortgage, two large US mortgage 
originators, reported large losses and eventual closures. In May 2007, UBS’s pro-
prietary trading “internal hedge fund,” Dillon Read, shut down after large credit 
and market losses. In June 2007, two Bear Stearns hedge funds had to be bailed out 
by the investment bank (consuming precious resources, as would be made clear 
in early 2008). In August 2007, BNP froze three investment funds, and German 
bank IKB had to be bailed out by the German banking sector after posting massive 
losses on its illiquid securities portfolio; another state bank, Sachsen Landesbank, 
suffered similar losses and required support. By the end of the month, a key fund-
ing source, the asset backed commercial paper market, effectively shut down as 
investors refused to rollover paper any more. This instantly put pressure on all 
banks active in the securitization market and the structured investment vehicle 
sector, as they had to bring these assets (many of them illiquid subprime-backed 
securities) on–balance sheet, funding them through any means possible. Just 
a month later, the Bank of England supplied Northern Rock with a temporary 
liquidity facility and, together with HM Treasury, would soon issue a blanket guar-
antee on deposits in order to stop the growing deposit withdrawals (as we have 
discussed earlier in the book). Throughout this period many US and international 
banks were posting increasing losses as they marked their illiquid asset portfolios 
to market; some were forced into a deleveraging situation. In November 2007, 
HSBC was forced to absorb $45 billion in SIV assets. Unfortunately, 2008 was even 
worse, as illiquidity and market losses intensified. In March 2008, Bear Stearns 
ran out of cash and was rescued by JP Morgan (with some backing from the US 
Treasury). Turmoil continued throughout the summer, and in September 2008 
events came to a climax: Wachovia and Merrill Lynch, both suffering from con-
tinued funds outflows, were forced into shotgun marriages with Wells Fargo and 
Bank of America, respectively. Shortly thereafter, Lehman Brothers, like Bear, ran 
out of cash, but was not rescued – it was forced into bankruptcy. That triggered 
panic throughout the markets, causing governments to assemble rescue packages 
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, AIG and many other US and international banks

--- Página 304 ---
Notes 
289
(as well as the entire nation of Iceland). The government intervention, through 
massive liquidity injection and partial nationalizations, calmed the markets and 
put things on a more stable footing. However, most of 2009 was fragile, with mar-
ket conditions far from normal and liquidity in many assets still thin. Not until 
2010 did some semblance of normalcy begin to return. So the toppling of the 
dominoes was extensive, and although credit and market risks featured as initial 
drivers, liquidity risks came into full force at various occasions during the period. 
Any successful stress testing exercise demands some “blue sky thinking” about 
unimaginable events and connections – just as the last crisis demonstrated. 
 16.  Consider, for example, that changing interest rate levels will not have a significant 
impact on the cash flow portion of the exercise (as the critical time period falls 
within weeks or months, rather than years) but it will have a rather large effect on 
the value of assets in the liquidity buffer (particularly those securities that have 
long durations and are thus very price/rate sensitive). 
 17.  One area of study that attempts to provide better estimates of the tails of statisti-
cal distributions is extreme value theory (EVT). EVT estimates probabilities by 
fitting a model to the tail of a probability function using only extreme event data; 
a tail index is derived and the thickness of the distribution in extreme regions can 
be analyzed. EVT is used in catastrophic risk analysis by insurers and reinsurers 
to capture the low frequency/high severity events to which they are potentially 
exposed. We might argue that a systemic liquidity crisis, or perhaps a multi-insti-
tution liquidity crisis, falls into that category, suggesting that EVT may be useful. 
 18.  One further note bears mentioning for institutions that are forced to dispose of 
securities held in investment, rather than trading, accounts. Under International 
Accounting Standards, 35 so-called “hold to maturity” assets need not be marked 
to market. However, if these “hold to maturity” investments are liquidated in 
support of current liquidity requirements, additional penalties may accrue to the 
firm, diminishing the cash value that can be extracted from the portfolio. 
 19.  The haircuts applied to fixed assets can be more challenging to determine because 
they are based on assets that are unique and often lack a ready market of buyers. 
An industrial company with an unencumbered factory valued at $500 million 
(after depreciation) may not receive the full value in a disposal or pledging sce-
nario; how much it receives will depend on both the perceived worth of the fac-
tory to a lender or buyer and the time horizon during which transaction execution 
must occur. Engineers and auditors must perform due diligence on the estimated 
sales value of the factory, and investment bankers might then approach commer-
cial banks and/or competitors to determine whether they would be willing to lend 
or buy at the independently assessed value. The process is time-consuming and far 
from transparent, meaning an ex-ante haircut value can be difficult to ascertain. 
The time dimension again features in the equation, with rapid disposal or pledg-
ing creating a larger discount. As with any illiquid asset, it is reasonable to assume 
that in most instances the haircut will be considerable, 25–75 percent of book 
value, and possibly even more. 
 9 Controlling Liquidity Risk 
  1.  These are often driven by expectations regarding key financial indicators such 
as economic growth, interest rates, term structure movements, foreign exchange 
rates, consumer confidence, and inflation. 
 2.  In the banking sector, for example, the BIS has specifically noted in its Liquidity 
Risk discussion paper from 2008 (Principle 4) that “a bank should incorporate 
liquidity costs, benefits and risks in product pricing, performance measurement 
and new product approvals.”

--- Página 305 ---
290 
Notes
 3.  Consider, for instance, that in the United States a bank holding company (BHC) 
cannot accept deposits or make use of the Federal Reserve discount window, and 
must therefore rely very heavily on the interbank market for liquidity. In addi-
tion, a BHC faces considerable constraints regarding upstreaming of funds and divi-
dends from main bank units, putting even greater pressures on funding (e.g., credit 
from a main bank unit to a BHC must be collateralized, a main bank unit cannot 
repay a BHC’s obligations, dividends can only be moved upstream as long as the 
main bank’s capital ratios remain sound). Similar restrictions exist in the insur-
ance industry and in other regulated/unregulated industrial sectors. All of these 
relationships must be well understood before liquidity can be properly controlled, 
hence the importance of a legal entity and consolidated focus. 
 4.  To give just one example, the US Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) 
believes that a funding concentration exists when a single decision or single market 
factor could lead to a large withdrawal of funds. The OCC has also indicated that US 
banks must be very cautious about over-reliance on the interbank funding market, 
even if activity is spread out among a large number of banking institutions. 
 5.  In some cases, institutions can create products that allow better control of what 
might otherwise be an uncertain maturity; for instance, a liability may include an 
early exercise penalty that effectively dissuades presentation prior to the original 
contract maturity. 
 6.  Even in instances when a MAC is not publicly triggered, there is the possibility that 
bankers will press the borrowing company to take certain actions or enact certain 
reforms that will add pressure to its financial position. 
 7.  It is interesting to note that at least one banking regulator has proposed the estab-
lishment of one week and one month cash flow gap limits built atop multi-week 
dynamic “stress factors” that are applied to actual and contingent inflows and out-
flows. Larger stress factors are used when currency mismatches exist. This approach 
can be viewed as a matrix of hybrid multi-currency cash flow gap limits that have 
been recalibrated for the effects of stress testing. 
 8.  Consider the case of US bank Wachovia, which suffered greatly during the financial 
crisis. Specifically, in the aftermath of the Lehman collapse, the bank lost approxi-
mately $6.8 billion in deposits and commercial paper. Though the bank still held 
a liquidity buffer of more than $100 billion, it had done a poor job of communi-
cating effectively with its financing providers; concerns about the bank’s mort-
gage portfolio and lack of clear answers led to growing nervousness. Shortly after 
the silent run on the deposits, counterparties demanded repayment of a further 
$50 billion of credit. Over the following weekend, US regulators determined that 
Wachovia stood to lose a further $115 billion of funding from retail and corporate 
deposits (versus $100 billion in coverage). Given this liquidity squeeze, regulators 
approved an 11 th hour acquisition of Wachovia by beleaguered Citibank; the bid 
was trumped at the last minute by the much stronger Wells Fargo, which essen-
tially saved Wachovia from collapse. While we may never know what might have 
happened had Wachovia been more forthright and constructive in its dialogue and 
relationships with funders, it is an important lesson to bear in mind. Loss of confi-
dence can occur quickly and can be damaging. 
 9.  In some instances regulations or accounting conventions require firms to comply 
with specific liquidity-related disclosures. For instance, in the regulatory commu-
nity, the US Securities and Exchange Commission, commenting on Management 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results, has indicated: 
 In determining required or appropriate disclosure, companies should evalu-
ate separately their ability to meet upcoming cash requirements over both the 
short-term and long-term. Merely stating that a company has adequate resources 
is insufficient unless no additional more detailed or nuanced information is

--- Página 306 ---
Notes 
291
material.… One starting point for a company’s discussion and analysis of cash 
requirements is a tabular disclosure of contractual obligations, supplemented 
with additional information that is material to an understanding of a company’s 
cash requirement. Companies should address, where material, the difficulties 
involved in assessing the effect of amount and timing of uncertain events, such 
as loss contingencies, on cash requirements and liquidity. Any such discussion 
should be specific to the circumstances and informative. 
 (SEC, 2003) 
 Within the accounting sector, the International Account Standards Board, ref-
erencing disclosures related to financial instruments, has noted that “an entity 
shall disclose (a) a maturity analysis that shows for financial liabilities the remain-
ing contract maturities; and (b) a description of how it manages the liquidity risk 
inherent in (a).” Other accounting systems have requirements of their own. 
 10 Liquidity Crisis Management 
 1.  Reductions in net working capital are very industry dependent. In some instances 
working capital is relatively high, e.g., construction (20–25% of assets) while in 
others it is comparatively low, e.g., oil and gas, mining (10%). Those with higher 
working capital certainly have greater flexibility in reducing as needed; common 
methods include collecting receivables, reducing inventories, and managing paya-
bles more conservatively. 
 11 New Regulatory Initiatives 
 1.  Level 1 assets are limited to: 
 Coins and banknotes 
 
●
 Central bank reserves (including required reserves) to the extent that the cen-
 
●
tral bank policies allow them to be drawn down in times of stress 
 Marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by sovereigns, 
 
●
central banks, PSEs, the Bank for International Settlements, the International 
Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and European Community, or mul-
tilateral development banks, as long as they have a 0% risk weight under Basel 
II, traded in a deep market with a proven track record of liquidity under all 
conditions, and not issued by a financial institution 
 Domestic (local currency) sovereign or central bank debt for non-0% risk 
 
●
weighted sovereigns. 
 Level 2A assets include:
 Marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by sovereigns, central 
 
●
banks, PSEs or multilateral development banks that satisfy all of the following 
conditions: assigned a 20% risk weight under the Basel II Standardized Approach 
for credit risk; traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets character-
ized by a low level of concentration; have a proven record as a reliable source of 
liquidity in the markets (repo or sale) even during stressed market conditions 
(i.e., maximum decline of price not exceeding 10% or increase in haircut not 
exceeding 10 percentage points over a 30-day period during a relevant period of 
significant liquidity stress); and not an obligation of a financial institution or any 
of its affiliated entities. 
 Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) and covered bonds that 
 
●
satisfy all of the following conditions: in the case of corporate debt securities: 
not issued by a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities; in the case

--- Página 307 ---
292 
Notes
of covered bonds: not issued by the bank itself or any of its affiliated entities; 
and are “plain vanilla” in nature, with no complex features or subordination. 
Additionally, they must 
 have a long-term credit rating from a recognized external credit assessment 
institution (ECAI) of at least AA-21 or in the absence of a long-term rating, 
a short-term rating equivalent in quality to the long-term rating; or (ii) do 
not have a credit assessment by a recognized ECAI but are internally rated 
as having a probability of default (PD) corresponding to a credit rating of 
at least AA-; 
 be traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterized by a low 
level of concentration; and 
 have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo 
or sale) even during stressed market conditions: i.e., maximum decline of 
price or increase in haircut over a 30-day period during a relevant period 
of significant liquidity stress not exceeding 10%. 
 Level 2B assets include:
 Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) that satisfy all of the following 
 
●
 conditions may be included in Level 2B, subject to a 25% haircut:
 not issued by, and the underlying assets have not been originated by, the bank 
itself or any of its affiliated entities; 
 have a long-term credit rating from a recognized ECAI of AA or higher, or in 
the absence of a long-term rating, a short-term rating equivalent in quality 
to the long-term rating; 
 traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterized by a low 
 level of concentration; 
 have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo or 
sale) even during stressed market conditions, i.e., a maximum decline of 
price not exceeding 20%; 
 the underlying asset pool is restricted to residential mortgages and cannot 
contain structured products; 
 the underlying mortgages are “full recourse’’ loans (i.e., in the case of fore-
closure the mortgage owner remains liable for any shortfall in sales pro-
ceeds from the property) and have a maximum loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of 
80% on average at issuance; and 
 the securitizations are subject to “risk retention” regulations which require 
issuers to retain an interest in the assets they securities. 
 Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) that satisfy all of the 
 
●
following conditions may be included in Level 2B, subject to a 50% haircut: 
 not issued by a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities; 
 either (i) have a long-term credit rating from a recognized ECAI between 
A+ and BBB- or in the absence of a long term rating, a short-term rating 
equivalent in quality to the long-term rating; or (ii) do not have a credit 
assessment by a recognized ECAI and are internally rated as having a PD 
corresponding to a credit rating of between A+ and BBB-; 
 traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterized by a low 
level of concentration; and 
 have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo 
or sale) even during stressed market conditions, i.e., a maximum decline 
of price not exceeding 20% or increase in haircut over a 30-day period 
not exceeding 20 percentage points during a relevant period of significant 
liquidity stress.

--- Página 308 ---
Notes 
293
 Common equity shares that satisfy all of the following conditions may be 
 
●
included in Level 2B, subject to a 50% haircut: 
 not issued by a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities; 
 exchange traded and centrally cleared; 
 a constituent of the major stock index in the home jurisdiction or where 
the liquidity risk is taken, as decided by the supervisor in the jurisdiction 
where the index is located; 
 denominated in the domestic currency of a bank’s home jurisdiction or in the 
currency of the jurisdiction where a bank’s liquidity risk is taken; 
 traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterized by a low 
level of concentration; and 
 have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo 
or sale) even during stressed market conditions, i.e., a maximum decline 
of share price not exceeding 40% or increase in haircut not exceeding 
40  percentage points over a 30-day period during a relevant period of sig-
nificant liquidity. 
 2. 
 Another definition of counterbalancing capacity is given as the liquid asset 
portfolio plus new short-term debt plus new long-term debt. 
 3. 
 The rules distinguish between Individual Liquidity Assessment Standards (ILAS) 
and non-ILAS entities. ILAS include banks, building societies and investment 
companies, while non-ILAS include small banks, limited license operations and 
limited activity operations. 
 12 Summary: Toward Active Liquidity Risk Management 
 1.  Consider, for example, that UK securities firms were historically not directly sub-
ject to the liquidity rules imposed by the Bank of England on other domestic bank-
ing institutions, even though they may have had considerable liquidity exposures. 
That has changed with FSA’s BIPRU 12. 
 2.  Elimination of “too big to fail” has been a priority for a number of national regula-
tors, who seek to avoid a repetition of the bailouts they were party to in 2008–2009. 
While various initiatives have been put forth, including shrinking bank activities 
and granting regulators defined authorities in a “wind down” or resolution phase, 
there does not seem to be any widespread belief that the “too big to fail” concept, 
with its attendant call on taxpayers, has actually been resolved. 
 3.  The process should also involve ancillary and indirect forms of support, such as 
temporarily relaxing collateral, reserve, and solvency requirements for other insti-
tutions in the system, and sterilizing any system-wide liquidity injections in order 
to avoid inflationary pressures and currency weakness. In general, more “extreme” 
government actions, such as interest rate cuts, capital controls, or deposit freezing 
should be avoided, as these can send a potentially damaging signal to the market-
place at large, and actually affect liquidity.

--- Página 309 ---
294
 Selected References 
 American Academy of Actuaries (AAA) (2000) “Report of the American Academy 
of Actuaries Life Liquidity Working Group,” Washington, DC: AAA. 
 American Bankers Association (ABA) (2011) “Dodd Frank Act Implementation: 
Executive Overview,” Washington DC: ABA. 
 Bangia, A., Diebold, F., Schuermann, T., and Stroughair, J. (1999) “Modeling 
Liquidity Risk with Implications for Trading Market Risk Management,” Working 
Paper, University of Pennsylvania. 
 Banks, E. (2004a)  Corporate Governance , Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave Macmillan. 
 Banks, E. (2004b)  The Credit Risk of Complex Derivatives , 3rd edn, Basingstoke, UK: 
Palgrave Macmillan. 
 Banks, E. (2006)  The Failure of Wall Street , NY: Palgrave Macmillan. 
 Banks, E. (2010)  Risk and Financial Catastrophe , UK: Palgrave Macmillan. 
 Banks, E. (2011)  See No Evil , Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave Macmillan. 
 Banks, E. and Dunn, R. (2003)  Practical Risk Management , London: John Wiley. 
 Barrett, A. (2003) “Cash: Burn, Baby, Burn,”  Business Week , April 28. 
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BIS) (1992)  A Framework for Measuring 
and Managing Liquidity , Basel: BIS. 
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BIS) (2008)  Principles for Sound Liquidity 
Risk Management , Basel: BIS. 
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BIS) (2010)  Basel III: International 
Framework for Liquidity Risk Management Standards and Monitoring , Basel: BIS. 
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BIS) (2013)  Basel III: The LCR and 
Liquidity Risk Monitoring Tools , Basel: BIS. 
 BIS (1999)  Market Liquidity: Research Findings and Selected Policy Implications, Basel: 
BIS. 
 BIS (2000)  Sound Practices for Managing Liquidity in Banking Organizations , Basel: 
BIS. 
 Berkowitz, J. (2000) “Incorporating Liquidity Risk into VAR models,” Working 
Paper, University of California at Irvine. 
 Bernstein, P. (1987) “Liquidity, Stock Markets, and Market-Makers,”  Financial 
Management , Summer, pp. 54–62. 
 Borio, C., (2009) “Ten Propositions about Liquidity Crises,” BIS Working Paper 
293, Basel: BIS. 
 Brockman, P. and Chung, D. (2001) “Managerial Timing and Corporate Liquidity: 
Evidence from Actual Share Repurchases,”  Journal of Financial Economics , Vol. 
61, No. 3 (September). 
 Brown, K., Fiedler, R., and Moloney, J. (2001) “Liquidity In a Dry Climate,”  E-Risk 
Portal , New York: E-Risk. 
 Buraschi, A. (2002) “Liquidity Risk and Specialness,”  Journal of Financial Economics , 
Vol. 64, No. 2 (May). 
 Canadian Institute of Actuaries (CIA) (1996) “Liquidity Risk Measurement,” 
Subcommittee on Liquidity Risk Measurement, Ottawa, Canada. 
 Caprio, G. and Klingebiel, D. (1999) “Episodes of Systemic and Borderline Financial 
Crises,” World Bank Monograph, Washington, DC: World Bank.

--- Página 310 ---
Selected References 
295
 Chari, V. and Jagannathan, R. (1988) “Banking Panics, Information, and Rational 
Expectations Equilibrium,”  Journal of Finance , Vol. 43. 
 Committee of European Bank Supervisors (CEBS) (2009) “Consultation Paper on 
Liquidity Buffers and Survival Periods,” Brussels: CEBS. 
 Committee of European Bank Supervisors (CEBS) (2010) “EU Banks’ Liquidity 
Stress Testing and Contingency Funding Plans,” Brussels: CEBS. 
 Covitz, D. and Downing, C. (2002) “Insolvency Or Liquidity Squeeze?” Federal 
Reserve Bank Bulletin, Washington, DC: Federal Reserve Bank (FRB). 
 Coyle, B. (2000)  Cash Flow Forecasting and Liquidity , Chicago: Glenbrook. 
 Davis, E. (1999) “a Reappraisal of Market Liquidity Risk in the Light of the 
Russia/LTCM Global Securities Market Crisis,” Presentation at Basel Banking 
Supervisors Conference. 
 Decker, P. (2000) “The Changing Character of Liquidity and Liquidity Risk 
Management,” Chicago: Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
 Desocio, A. (2011) “The Interbank Market after the Financial Turmoil,” Bank of 
Italy Working Paper 819, Rome: Bank of Italy. 
 Diamond, D. and Dybvig, P. (1983) “Bank Runs, Deposit Insurance, and Liquidity,” 
 Journal of Political Econom y, Vol. 91 (June). 
 Diamond, D. and Rajan, R. (1999) “Liquidity Risk, Liquidity Creation and Financial 
Fragility: a Theory of Banking,” Working Paper, National Bureau of Economic 
Research. 
 Drehmann, M. and Nikolaou, K. (2010) “Funding Liquidity Risk: Definitions and 
Measurement,” BIS Working Paper 3164, Basel: BIS. 
 Dudley, W. (2009) “More Lessons from the Crisis,” Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York speech, New York: FRB. 
 Ernst and Young (2012)  Bank Risk Management Survey: Liquidity Management , New 
York: E&Y. 
 Erzegovesi, L. (2002) “VaR and Liquidity Risk,” Working Paper, University of 
Trento, Italy. 
 European Commission (2009) “Directive 2009/138 of the European Parliament 
on Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II),” Brussels: EC. 
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) (1998)  DOS Manual of Examination 
Policies: Liquidity and Funds Management, Washington, DC: FDIC. 
 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (2008), “What Is Liquidity Risk,” Economic 
Letter 2008–33, San Francisco: FRBSF. 
 Fernandez, F. (1999) “Liquidity Risk: New Approaches to Measurement and 
Monitoring,” Working Paper, Securities Industry Association. 
 Financial Services Authority (FSA) (2003)  Liquidity Risk in the Integrated Prudential 
Sourcebook: A Quantitative Framework , London: FSA. 
 Financial Services Authority (FSA) (2008) Strengthening Liquidity Standards, 
London: FSA. 
 Financial Services Authority (FSA) (2010)  Liquidity Regime and Non-ILAS BIPRU 
Firms , London: FSA. 
 Gatev, E. and Straham, P. (2001) “Banks’ Advantage in Hedging Liquidity Risk: 
Theory and Evidence from the Commercial Paper Market,” Working Paper, 
University of Pennsylvania. 
 Gorton, G. (1988) “Banking Panics, and Business Cycles,”  Oxford Economic Papers , 
Vol. 40. 
 Gorton, G. and Huang, K. (2002) “Liquidity, Efficiency, and Bank Bailouts,” 
Working Paper, University of Pennsylvania.

--- Página 311 ---
296 
Selected References
 HM Treasury (1999)  UK Economic Glossary , London: HM Treasury. 
 International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) (2000) “Solvency 
Subcommittee Issues Paper,” Basel: IAIS. 
 International Institute of Finance (2009) “Reform in the Financial Services 
Industry,” Washington DC: IIF. 
 International Organization of Securities Commissioners (IOSCO) (2002)  Sound 
Practices for the Management of Liquidity Risk at Securities Firms , Geneva: IOSCO. 
 Jameson, R. (2001) “Who’s Afraid of Liquidity Risk?”  E-Risk Portal , New York: 
E-Risk. 
 Jarrow, R. and Subramanian, A. (1997) “Mopping Up Liquidity,”  Risk , December 
10. 
 Jorion, P. (1996)  Value at Risk , Burr Ridge, IL: Irwin. 
 Kyle, A. (1995) “Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading,”  Econometrica , Vol. 53, 
No. 6. 
 Locke, P. and Sarkar, A. (1996) “Volatility and Liquidity in Futures Markets,” 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Paper, New York: FRB. 
 Lott, F. and Marcucci, J. (2003) “Corporate Liquidity Demand in the US,” Working 
Paper, Bank of Italy and University of California San Diego. 
 Lucas, R. and Stokey, N. (2011) “Liquidity Crisis: Understanding Sources and 
Limiting Consequences,” Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Economic Policy 
Paper 11–3, Minneapolis: FRBM. 
 Lucas, Y. (2009) “The Impact of Financial Crises on Transfer Systems,” Paris: 
Banque de France. 
 Matz, L. (2011)  Liquidity Risk Measurement and Management: Basel III and Beyond , 
New York: Xlibris Corp. 
 Matz, L. and Neu, P. (2006)  Liquidity Risk: Measurement and Management, Singapore: 
John Wiley. 
 Muranaga, J. and Ohsawa, M. (1999) “Measurement of Liquidity Risk in the 
Context of Market Risk Calculation,”  Bank of Japan Bulletin , Tokyo: Bank of 
Japan. 
 Nikolaou, K. (2009) “Liquidity Risk Concepts,” ECB Working Paper 1008, Brussels: 
ECB. 
 Northern Rock (2006)  Annual Report, and Accounts, Newcastle upon Tyne.  
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) (2001)  Liquidity: Comptroller’s 
Handbook , Washington, DC: OCC. 
 Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada (OSFI) (1995) 
 Liquidity Guideline , Ottawa, Canada: OSFI. 
 Schlingemann, F., Stulz, R., and Waking, R. (2001) “Divestitures and the Liquidity 
of the Market for Corporate Assets,” Working Paper, National Bureau of Economic 
Research. 
 Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (2003) “Management Discussion 
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results: Interpretative Guidance,” 
Washington, DC: SEC. 
 Sender, H. and Singer, J. (2003) “a Betting Man and His Fund’s Hard Fall,”  Wall 
Street Journal , April 9. 
 Sprinzen, S. and Petit, M. (2002) “Framework for Analyzing Corporate Liquidity 
Under Stress,”  Standard and Poor’s CreditWeek , New York: Standard and Poor’s. 
 Taleb, N. (1996)  Dynamic Hedging, New York: John Wiley.

--- Página 312 ---
297
active liquidity risk management, future 
of 259–69
macro role 263–9
avoiding fragmentation 266
conducting regular inspections 265
harmonizing accounting 
treatment 266–7
minimizing costs 266
providing selective lender of last 
resort support 267–8
reinforcing proper capital 
allocation 267
micro role: best practices 260–3
creating a sound governance 
framework 260–1
developing and implementing a 
crisis management process 263
implementing proper measures and 
reporting 261–2
performing ongoing reviews 265
using tactical controls 262
asset liquidity risk 5, 93–107
effects of 106–7
exogenous considerations 96–8
nature of asset liquidity risk 
problems 101–6
excessive concentrations 102–3
insufficient collateral 105–6
lack of asset marketability 99–101
lack of unencumbered assets 101–2
misvalued assets 103–5
sources of 96
asset liquidity, sources of 49–55
Bank for International Settlements 
(BIS) 16
Basel III 243–52
BIS, see Bank for International 
Settlements
case studies 122–52
Askin Capital 126–9
Drexel Burnham Lambert 123–6
Enron 140–4
General American 135–6
Lehman Brothers 148–52
Long Term Capital Management 131–4
Northern Rock 144–8
Orange County 129–31
Swissair 136–40
cash flow gaps 162–7
Committee of European Banking 
Supervisors Liquidity 
Consultation 253–4
conduit 16
contagion 120–1
controlling liquidity risk 188–226
governance structure 188–90
liquidity risk controls 196–218
asset liquidity controls 197–204
collateral/pledging limits 202–4
liquidity and fixed asset 
limits 198–202
funding liquidity controls 204–10
committed facility limits 207–10
diversified funding limits 205–7
joint liquidity controls 210–12
balance sheet target limits 
211–12
cash flow gap limits 210–11
hybrid ratio limits 212
off balance sheet controls 212–14
forward commitments and 
contingencies 213–14
other safeguards 215–19
defensive interval 215–16
external relationship 
management 218–19
mark and model 
verification 216–17
penalties 217–18
reserves 216
liquidity risk management 191–4
financial and human 
resources 192–4
risk plan 191–2
liquidity risk monitoring 219–26
asset and funding portfolios 220
forward balance sheet 221
general indicators 222–3
management goals 224–5
off balance sheet commitments and 
contingencies 221
stress scenarios 221–2
Index

--- Página 313 ---
298 
Index
controlling liquidity risk – continued
technical capabilities 225–6
management duties 194–9
corporate liquidity ratios 160
counterbalancing capacity 251
credit risk 4, 13
defensive interval 215–16
defensive measures 232–7
definition of liquidity risk 3–7
depth 168
Dodd Frank Act 252–3
duration 270–2
endogenous liquidity 5, 9–10, 43
exogenous liquidity 5, 9–10, 47, 96–8
financial distress 119–1201
financial institution liquidity ratios 161
financial instrument liquidity 
measures 168–73
financial risk 3
Financial Services Authority BIPRU 12, 
254–6
funding liquidity risk 4, 77–92
effects of 91–2
exogenous considerations 85–7
nature of funding problems 87–91
commitment withdrawals 89–90
excessive concentrations 90–1
lack of market access 88–9
rollover problems 87–8
sources of 78–85
mismanagement 84
negative perceptions/market 
actions 84–5
unfavorable legal/regular 
actions 83–4
unpredictable cash flows 78–83
funding liquidity, sources of 55–64
gap analysis 271–2
gap management 270–9
common measures 272–9
duration 270–2
interest rate activities 270
haircut 50–1
high quality liquid assets (HQLA) 50, 
244–6
HQLA, see High quality liquid assets
joint asset/funding liquidity risk 5, 
108–13
liquid assets 49–53
liquidity adjusted value at risk 170–3
liquidity committee 188–90
liquidity contingency risk 5
liquidity coverage ratio 161, 244–6
liquidity crisis management 227–41
defensive measures 232–7
communication 236–7
recentralization 232–6
asset management 235
funding management 232–5
risk hedging 236
disaster recovery 239
ex-ante market access 231–2
invoking and terminating the 
program 237–9
scope and focus 227–31
testing the plan 239–41
liquidity mismatch risk 5
liquidity ratios 157–62
liquidity risk
controlling 188–226
measuring 155–87
monitoring 219–26
policies 196
pricing 193–4
liquidity risk and financial 
operations 24–47
endogenous versus exogenous 
liquidity 43–7
external requirements 29–31
financial imperatives 28–9
general approaches to liquidity 
management 27–8
liquidity operating requirements 
24–7
liquidity profiles by industry 33–42
capital intensive companies 41–2
financial institutions 34–40
municipalities and sovereigns 42
non-financial service 
companies 40–1
liquidity risk/return tradeoff 
31–3
liquidity risk controls 196–218
liquidity risk defined 3–23
definition of 3–7
liquidity risk and financial 
crises 14–22
liquidity, risk and the 
corporation 7–13
market risk, credit risk and liquidity 
risk 13–14

--- Página 314 ---
Index 
299
liquidity risk management, 
active 259–69
liquidity, sources of 48–73
liquidity spirals and financial 
distress 108–21
contagion 120–1
financial distress 119–1201
joint asset and funding risks 108–13
causes 112–13
problems 109–11
liquidity spirals 113–19
causes 115–19
debt investors and banks 116–18
management reaction 119
rating agencies 118–19s
problems 113–15
liquidity warehouse 53, 199
market risk 4, 13, 93
measuring liquidity risk 155–87
common liquidity measures 155–86
cash flow gaps 162–7
financial instrument liquidity 
measures 168–73
liquidity ratios 157–62
stress tests 173–87
asset disposals, secured funding 
and haircuts 179–82
cash flows 178–9
collateral 184–5
covenants and 
terminations 183–4
currency exposures 185
event risks and joint 
scenarios 185–6
liquidation horizon 178
market parameters 176–7
stress test framework 175–6
unsecured funding 182–3
net funding requirement 163–5, 211
net interest income 273
net interest margin 273
net stable funding ratio 161, 246–50
new regulatory initiatives 242–58
Basel III 243–52
monitoring 250–2
new liquidity measures 243–50
liquidity coverage ratio 244–6
net stable funding ratio 246–50
Committee of European Banking 
Supervisors Liquidity 
Consultation 253–4
Dodd Frank Act 252–3
Financial Services Authority BIPRU 12, 
254–6
solvency II and other insurance 
regulations 256–8
off balance sheet liquidity, sources 
of 64–71
operating risk 3–4
rate sensitive assets 166–7, 271
rate sensitive liabilities 166–7, 271
rating agencies 30–1
repurchase agreement 16
resiliency 168–9
risk appetite 192–3
securitization 17, 65–6
shadow banking 16
silent bank run 17, 146
SIV, see Structured investment vehicle
solvency 25
solvency II and other insurance 
regulations 256–8
sources of liquidity 48–73
amalgamating sources of 
liquidity 71–3
sources of asset liquidity 49–55
fixed assets and intangibles 54–5
fixed assets 54–5
intangibles 55
liquid assets 49–53
cash and marketable 
securities 49–52
inventories 52–3
receivables 52
sources of funding liquidity 55–64
equity capital 63–4
medium/long-term funding 
markets
funding agreements and 
guaranteed investment 
contracts 60–3
loans 62–3
long-term bonds 61–2
medium term notes and 
Euronotes 60
short-term funding markets 57–60
commercial paper and euro 
commercial paper 57
deposits and repurchase 
agreements 58–9
payables 58

--- Página 315 ---
300 
Index
sources of liquidity – continued
short-term bank facilities 57
sources of off balance sheet 
liquidity 64–71
contingent financings 66–7
derivatives 68
leases 67–8
securitization 65–6
stress tests 173–87
structured investment vehicle (SIV) 16, 
17, 20
tightness 168
value at risk (VAR) 134, 170–3
VAR, see value at risk

