=== Mapping_the_Risks_and_Risk_Management_Practices_in_Islamic_Banking.pdf ===

--- Página 3 ---
Mapping the
Risks and Risk
Management
Practices in
Islamic Banking

--- Página 4 ---
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing com-
pany in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe, Australia and
Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing print and elec-
tronic products and services for our customers’ professional and personal knowl-
edge and understanding.
The Wiley Finance series contains books written specifically for finance and
investment professionals as well as sophisticated individual investors and their
financial advisors. Book topics range from portfolio management to e-commerce,
risk management, financial engineering, valuation and financial instrument anal-
ysis, as well as much more.
For a list of available titles, visit our Web site at www.WileyFinance.com.

--- Página 5 ---
Mapping the
Risks and Risk
Management
Practices in
Islamic Banking
WAEL KAMAL EID
MEHMET ASUTAY

--- Página 6 ---
Copyright © 2019 by John Wiley & Sons Singapore Pte. Ltd.
Published by John Wiley & Sons Singapore Pte. Ltd.
1 Fusionopolis Walk, #07-01, Solaris South Tower, Singapore 138628
All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise,
except as expressly permitted by law, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or
authorization through payment of the appropriate photocopy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center.
Requests for permission should be addressed to the Publisher, John Wiley & Sons Singapore Pte.
Ltd., 1 Fusionopolis Walk, #07-01, Solaris South Tower, Singapore 138628, tel: 65–6643–8000,
fax: 65–6643–8008, e-mail: enquiry@wiley.com.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts
in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or
completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales
representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be
suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the
publisher nor the author shall be liable for any damages arising herefrom.
Other Wiley Editorial Offices
John Wiley & Sons, 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA
John Wiley & Sons, The Atrium, Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, P019 8SQ,
United Kingdom
John Wiley& Sons (Canada) Ltd., 5353 Dundas Street West, Suite 400, Toronto, Ontario,
M9B 6HB, Canada
John Wiley& Sons Australia Ltd., 42 McDougall Street, Milton, Queensland 4064, Australia
Wiley-VCH, Boschstrasse 12, D-69469 Weinheim, Germany
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Eid, Wael Kamal, 1977- author. | Asutay, Mehmet, author.
Title: Mapping the risks and risk management practices in Islamic banking /
Wael Kamal Eid, Mehmet Asutay.
Description: First Edition. | Hoboken : Wiley, 2019. | Series: The Wiley
finance | Includes bibliographical references and index. |
Identifiers: LCCN 2019005871 (print) | LCCN 2019006632 (ebook) | ISBN
9781119077800 (Adobe PDF) | ISBN 9781119077824 (ePub) | ISBN 9781119077817
(hardback)
Subjects: LCSH: Banks and banking—Religious aspects—Islam. | Risk
management. | BISAC: BUSINESS & ECONOMICS / Banks & Banking.
Classification: LCC HG3368.A6 (ebook) | LCC HG3368.A6 E393 2019 (print) | DDC
332.1068/1—dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019005871
Cover Design: Wiley
Cover Image: © Abdolhamid Ebrahimi/iStock.com
Typeset in 10/12pt, TimesLTStd by SPi Global, Chennai, India.
Printed in Singapore by Markono Print Media
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

--- Página 7 ---
For my mother and father who showed unconditional love and
taught me the values of hard work and integrity. And for the light of
my life: Pinar, Fares, and Kamal
—Wael Kamal Eid
To the dedication and diligence of the intellectual workers of
Islamic finance industry
—Mehmet Asutay

--- Página 9 ---
Contents
Foreword
xi
About the Authors
xiii
CHAPTER 1
Introduction: Research Background and Motivation
1
Systemic Importance of Islamic Banking and Finance
3
Research Aims, Objectives and Questions
5
Research Hypotheses
6
Significance of the Study
7
Overview of the Research Methodology
9
Overview of the Research
10
CHAPTER 2
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
13
Historical Background of Islamic Banking and Finance
14
Size of the Industry
17
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
20
Basic Islamic Financing Contracts
20
Sukuk: A Step Toward Securitisation
25
Islamic Banking Versus Conventional Banking
31
Institutional Developments in Islamic Banking and Finance Industry
33
Conclusion
39
CHAPTER 3
Risk Management in Islamic Banks: A Theoretical Perspective
41
Risk Management: Basic Concepts and Techniques
44
Risk Management and the Credit Crunch
51
Classification of Risks
51
Risks Common to Both Islamic and Conventional Banks
54
vii

--- Página 10 ---
viii
CONTENTS
Further Risk Areas Specific to Islamic Banks
93
Risk Categories are Entangled
106
Risk Management Issues in Sukuk
107
Risk Mitigation in Islamic Banking
110
Surveying Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banks: A Review
of Empirical Research
120
Conclusion
123
CHAPTER 4
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks: A Survey
127
Significance of Capital in Banking
128
Classification of Capital
129
Steps in the Basel Accord
130
Basel II and Islamic Banks
138
Basel III
142
IFSB Principles on Capital Adequacy
143
Capital Adequacy as a Tool for Risk Mitigation
150
Conclusion
151
CHAPTER 5
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
153
Understanding the Credit Crisis
156
The Financial Crisis and the Need for an Alternative System
163
The Financial Crisis and Islamic Finance and Banking as an
Alternative Option
163
Deviations from the Foundational Shari’ah Principles: Evaluating
the Operations of Islamic Finance
173
How to Achieve the Full Potential of Islamic Finance
177
Conclusion
181
CHAPTER 6
Research Framework and Methodology
183
Research Questions and Objectives
183
Research Hypotheses
185
Research Methodology
191
Research Design
191
Research Strategy
193
Research Method
194
Difficulties and Limitations
210
Conclusion
211

--- Página 11 ---
Contents
ix
CHAPTER 7
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance:
Descriptive Questionnaire Data Analysis
213
Data Analysis and Results
213
Conclusion
250
CHAPTER 8
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions
and Issues: Inferential Statistical Analysis
253
Risk Perception
254
Risk Management and Reporting
295
Risk Measurement
301
Risk Mitigation
303
Islamic Banking in Practice
304
The Next Chapter in Islamic Banking
306
Conclusion
307
CHAPTER 9
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices
in Islamic Banking: Interview Data Analysis
309
Interview Analysis
309
Forming the Main Interview Themes
310
Interview Questions
310
Results and Data Analysis
311
Conclusion
335
CHAPTER 10
Contextualising the Findings: An Interpretative Discussion
337
Risk Perception in Islamic Banking
337
Islamic Finance Contracts
345
Additional Risk Issues Facing Islamic Financial Institutions
351
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
353
Islamic Banking and the Global Credit Crisis
356
Risk Management and Reporting
363
Risk Measurement
365
Risk Mitigation
367
Islamic Banking in Practice
370
The Future of Islamic Banking
372
Conclusion and Summary
378

--- Página 12 ---
x
CONTENTS
CHAPTER 11
Conclusion and Research Recommendations
381
Summary of the Research
381
Reflecting on the Research Findings
382
Research Implications and Recommendations
386
Limitations of the Study
389
Suggestions for Future Research
390
Appendix 1: Questionnaire
393
List of Acronyms
401
Epilogue
403
Bibliography
405
Index
415

--- Página 13 ---
Foreword
T
his study is a welcome addition to the literature on risk management in Islamic
banking. The financial institutions survived the global financial crisis of
2007–2009 relatively unscathed and the more benign financial environment since
has witnessed the stabilisation of Islamic finance. However, its market penetration
has remained disappointing during the last decade – a likely explanation for this
being the failure of the industry to get the message across to potential clients of
the significance of risk-sharing for Islamic finance. There remains a widespread
perception that Islamic banking is very similar to its conventional counterpart,
which discourages clients from switching their accounts and applying for Islamic
financing.
Financial regulators, with some notable exceptions such as Bank Negara in
Malaysia, often have the same requirements for all banks, including Islamic banks.
This, regulators argue, creates a level playing field; but it makes no allowance
for the inherent differences of Islamic banks. Regulators must take some of the
blame for Islamic banks not distinguishing themselves as there is a disincentive
to introduce more innovative financial products that might thrive more in a more
liberal regulatory environment. At present Islamic banks are subject to the same
requirements for managing risk, whereas light touch regulation of the sector could
facilitate its development.
Dr Eid and Professor Asutay examine the different types of risks banks face
including credit risk, concentration risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational
risk. Asset–liability management (ALM) and displaced commercial risk are also
covered as well as Shari’ah risk. This book therefore provides a very compre-
hensive approach to risk exposure and how it can be managed. The core of the
research was a questionnaire survey completed by participants from 18 countries.
The data from the survey was analysed using non-parametric statistical techniques
including factor and multivariate analysis. In addition, semi-structured interviews
were held with 37 leading Islamic bank professionals; of which 33 comprised the
final sample. This provided greater depth to the study and gives the reader a better
understanding of the underlying issues.
The book serves as an essential guide to risk management in Islamic bank-
ing and is a “must read” for researchers working in this area, including university
xi

--- Página 14 ---
xii
FOREWORD
faculty and postgraduate students of Islamic finance. Although primarily an aca-
demic study, the book should prove worthwhile reading for financial regulators and
professional bankers working in the Islamic finance industry. The findings from
the surveys are clearly explained and there is a useful chapter that provides an inter-
pretative discussion. Overall the work is an insightful and useful piece of research.
Professor Rodney Wilson
Emeritus Professor, Durham University

--- Página 15 ---
About the Authors
Wael Kamal Eid, PhD is the Chief Risk Officer at SEDCO Holding and the Chair-
man of the Audit and Risk Committee of Al Nahdi Medical Company, and Member
of AutoWorld Audit Committee. He is a risk specialist in Islamic banking who
holds an MBA with Distinction from Warwick Business School, and a PhD in risk
management from Durham University.
Dr. Eid has extensive experience in risk management and Islamic banking
in the Middle East and Europe. He is also a guest lecturer on Risk Management
and Islamic Finance at distinguished universities and speaks regularly at inter-
national risk management events and conferences. Dr. Eid is the winner of the
2015 Golden Peacock Award for Risk Management by the prestigious Institute of
Directors (IoD).
Mehmet Asutay is a Professor of Middle Eastern and Islamic Political Economy
and Finance at the Durham University Business School; Director of the Durham
Centre in Islamic Economics and Finance; and Programme Director for the MSc
in Islamic Finance and the MSc in Islamic Finance and Management programmes
and the Durham Islamic Finance Summer School. Mehmet’s teaching, research,
publication and supervision of research all falls within Islamic moral econ-
omy/Islamic economics, Islamic political economy, Islamic finance and banking,
Islamic governance and management and the Middle Eastern political economies.
His articles on his research interests have been published in various international
academic journals and professional magazines. He has also published and edited
books on aspects of Islamic moral economy and Islamic finance.
xiii

--- Página 17 ---
CHAPTER1
Introduction
Research Background and Motivation
Risk knows no religion
—Michael Ainley, Head of Wholesale Banking, FSA (2007)
W
as Michael Ainley right when he assumed that risk management is similar
across different cultures and religions, in this case Islamic and conventional
banks? Are Islamic banks just like any other bank that provides financial services,
and hence have similar risk management requirements?
The subject of risk management in Islamic banking has many facets. On the
surface, the frequently repeated story that Islamic banks are more resilient than
conventional ones is attractive in a world torn by a financial tsunami. Unfortu-
nately, at least in the current form in which Islamic banking is practised, this is not
entirely true. The assumption at one point early in the crisis was that the Islamic
market would be entirely unaffected and would sail through the crunch; and people
thought that the financial crisis would be the lift-off platform for Islamic banks. On
the contrary, the crisis exposed a number of areas in Islamic banking that needed
to be dealt with.
This study examines different aspects of risk management issues in Islamic
banking. At the heart of this book is the question of whether Islamic banks are
more or less risky than their conventional peers. A review of the existing literature
does not provide a clear-cut answer to this question. The majority of the relevant
literature gives conflicting views using theoretical arguments rather than a for-
mal empirical analysis. The question is clearly an empirical one, the answer to
which requires feedback from the market place. The study thus attempts to fill this
gap in the empirical literature on risk management in Islamic banking through a
survey-based questionnaire and in-depth interviews.
The difficulties afflicting conventional financial markets since mid-2007 have
led to more attention being paid to Islamic alternatives. While the modern Islamic
finance industry is still young, it has been growing rapidly for several years, largely
on the back of an oil-fuelled economic boom in the Middle East. Much demand
1

--- Página 18 ---
2
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
came from non-Islamic investors who were simply attracted by good investment
opportunities. With awareness of the industry rising, Islamic banks have expanded
their operations, especially in the core markets of the Middle East and South
Asia, but also in newer markets with substantial Muslim populations, including
Sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Europe.
At the same time, risk management is receiving increased attention every-
where due to the financial crisis, and risk management products and methods for
Islamic banking and finance (IBF) are certainly a hot issue. The market turmoil of
the past few years has triggered a wide-ranging reassessment of the global financial
system and a need to understand the causes that led to a financial crisis of a sever-
ity not seen since the Great Depression. One of the main areas of attention has
been the failure of many financial institutions to manage their risks adequately.
In most cases, the industry debate has focused on pure risk management fail-
ures, particularly the shortcomings of risk models in measuring risks accurately,
without addressing the broader issue of how risk is managed at the highest macro-
economic levels and how the whole financial system is based on greed and lack of
morality. Since then the credit crunch has afforded advocates of Islamic finance
an opportunity to emphasise Shari’ah principles relating to debt and risk, find-
ing a receptive audience beyond the Muslim world. For Islamic financiers, highly
complex structured products such as subprime and toxic assets were seen as unac-
ceptable because they were so far removed from their underlying assets.
There appears to be great potential for further growth in Islamic banking,
which is still at a relatively early stage. However, there are also a number of chal-
lenges associated with developing a new industry with a different approach to
risk management. It is notable that although Islamic banks were unscathed by
the subprime crisis, many have since suffered from the negative effects of the
broader recession, including a collapse in property prices in Dubai, where many
Gulf Islamic banks had substantial exposure. The first sukuk defaults occurred in
2009 from two Gulf-based corporate institutions: Kuwait’s Investment Dar and
Saudi Arabia’s Saad Group; others followed shortly after.
This research provides an up-to-date overview of current market practices,
issues and trends in risk management for Islamic banks. It focuses on practical
applications and discusses a wide range of unique risks faced by Islamic banks
from the perspective of different ranges of practitioners. The book asserts that the
weaknesses of many financial firms in managing their risks have to be looked at in
a comprehensive fashion. The root drivers of the prevailing financial system have
to be challenged and replaced by a more transparent and ethical alternative.
This research combines conceptual frameworks with ‘hands-on’ practical per-
ceptions of risk management in Islamic banking in a pioneering piece of research
that Shari’ah scholars, policy-makers, practitioners, academics and researchers
will find of relevance and a motivation to conduct further research in this vital but

--- Página 19 ---
Introduction
3
under-researched area. Although a few Shari’ah opinions are included in the book,
religious and Shari’ah discussions are beyond the scope of this research.
SYSTEMIC IMPORTANCE OF ISLAMIC BANKING
AND FINANCE
Islamic finance is the fastest-growing sector in the financial industry at present.
Launched to reconcile the financial with the theological needs of a global commu-
nity of 1.5 billion Muslims, Islamic finance today offers a broad and sophisticated
range of products and services. Double-digit growth rates for Shari’ah-compliant
assets over the past decade have naturally driven Islamic financiers to look beyond
historical boundaries to explore new territories, both within and outside the
Muslim world.
The increasing international interest in Islamic finance is a reflection of the
success that this industry has achieved during its short history. Moreover, Shari’ah
principles that place emphasis on providing economic added-value to stake-
holders, and aim to create equivalence in benefits and costs, free from harmful
speculation, are gaining more attention and better understanding globally. Several
Western supervisory bodies are incorporating amendments to their supervisory
and regulatory legislation to allow for Islamic institutions and Shari’ah-compliant
products, which will reinforce the role of Islamic finance globally. Nowadays, in
European, American and most Western markets, financial institutions are offering
more products and services to cater for Islamic finance. Moreover, a great number
of financial institutions in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and in Asia
are managing funds of over USD 300 billion and are encouraged by their markets
to provide Islamic financial services (Moody’s, 2011a).
Islamic banking, being the main sub-sector within the Islamic finance indus-
try, has been pioneering this exponential growth. According to Moody’s (2011a),
the total assets held by Islamic banks globally amounted to more than USD
1 trillion by the end of 2010. While Islamic banks have been hit by the economic
downturn, they have been considerably less affected than most conventional
banks. This is mainly because, unlike conventional banks, the Islamic banks
have not been exposed to losses from investment in toxic assets, nor have they
been highly dependent on wholesale funds. Furthermore, Islamic instruments are
highly useful alternative investments for the diversification of portfolios, as they
have low correlation to other market segments, allow the selective underweighting
of particular sectors, and seem to be relatively independent of even market turbu-
lences like the subprime crisis. As a consequence, the increasing standardisation
of derivatives and sukuk, as well as the growing liquidity and organisation of the
Islamic capital market, offers many opportunities to innovative investors.

--- Página 20 ---
4
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
With such a background, it is obvious that Islamic banks have come a long
way. The future of these institutions, however, will depend on how they cope
with the rapidly changing financial world. With globalisation and the information
technology revolution, the scope of different financial institutions has expanded
beyond national jurisdictions, particularly for investment and wholesale banks.
As a result, the financial sector in particular has become more dynamic, com-
petitive and complex. There has been unprecedented development in computing,
mathematical finance and innovation of risk management techniques. Moreover,
the financial crisis is likely to challenge the global risk management foundations.
All these developments are expected to magnify the challenges that Islamic finan-
cial institutions (IFIs) face, particularly as more well-established conventional
institutions have begun to provide Islamic financial products. IFIs need to equip
themselves with the up-to-date management skills and operational systems to
cope with this environment. One major factor that will determine the survival and
growth of the industry is how well these institutions manage the risks generated
in providing Islamic financial services.
The last three decades have witnessed a shift of focus in the development
of Islamic banking. The original objective of the 1960s and 1970s of develop-
ing an interest-free financial system is no longer the primary objective for Islamic
bankers. The current core issue is to develop an Islamic financial industry which
does not suffer from the weaknesses of the conventional banking system, particu-
larly after the current credit crisis. Thus, the focus has shifted to risk management
and mitigation, financial engineering, innovation and providing common standards
in Islamic finance.
Banking, in all its forms, contains risks that pose a challenge to all stakehold-
ers. Islamic banks, like their conventional counterparts, are financial institutions
which provide services to depositors and investors on the one hand and offer
financing to companies, the public sector and individuals on the other. They are
therefore subject to many risks that are similar to those confronted by conven-
tional banks. There is a growing concern that the risk management practices of
Islamic banking are not keeping pace with the global financial market. The rapid
growth of Islamic banking on all fronts calls for proactive responses to risk
management issues. In addition, Shari’ah-compliant banks have their own unique
set of risks that differ from those borne by conventional banks. In principle,
there is a range of activities through which Islamic banks can work in different
ways that enable them to provide funds. These activities are adapted to meet the
Shari’ah principles that govern Islamic banking, the most important of which is
the principle of risk sharing.
Managing risk especially in the current perilous times is no easy task. The
events of mid-September 2008 challenged financial institutions’ preconceived
ideas of how to view risk. Until 15 September 2008, few bankers would have

--- Página 21 ---
Introduction
5
thought a systematically important and highly rated financial institution such
as Lehman Brothers could have failed, let alone failed as quickly as it did.
Risk management in Islamic banking is a hot issue as little is yet understood
on many aspects, with IFIs facing significant challenges in measuring and
managing risks. Effective risk management in Islamic banking therefore deserves
priority attention because the future of Islamic banks will largely depend on
how they manage their unique set of risks. So far, Islamic banking has been
free-riding on financial theories and instruments developed within the context
of the conventional debt- and interest-based system. Unless the Islamic banking
industry develops its own genuine risk management architecture, it cannot
achieve the dynamism of the Islamic finance system, which provides the security
and viability needed for a more resilient financial system than the debunked Wall
Street model.
RESEARCH AIMS, OBJECTIVES AND QUESTIONS
This research attempts to fill the gap in the empirical literature on risk management
in Islamic banking. It recognises upfront that Islamic banking offers its own unique
approach to risk management. Following a structured approach, first, the research
aim and objectives were identified, and then research questions were developed
within the context of the broader objectives.
The aim of this research is to explore and analyse the risk and risk man-
agement practices in the Islamic banking industry through the perceptions and
opinions of participants drawn from the banking and finance industry. In doing
so, this research maps out attitudes toward risk in the IBF industry and locates
perceptions of the various stakeholders on risk management-related practices in
the industry.
In fulfilling the identified research aim, the following specific objectives are
developed:
(i) To ascertain the fundamental principles underlying risk management in
Islamic banking and the unique risks facing IFIs;
(ii) To investigate the effect of different control variables like region, coun-
try, respondent’s position, nature of financial institution, nature of operations,
and accounting standards on the participant’s perception of the nature of
risks, risk measurement, and risk management and mitigation approaches of
IFIs in comparison to those of conventional banks and with reference to the
market conditions in which IFIs operate;
(iii) To evaluate the applicability of Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB)
Standards and Guidelines with respect to risk management and capital

--- Página 22 ---
6
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
adequacy, and how the Guidelines could operate in a Basel II (and potentially
Basel III) era;
(iv) To investigate the real roots of the recent crisis with a view to drawing some
lessons for IFIs;
(v) To examine the dichotomy between the theory and practice of Islamic bank-
ing; and
(vi) To explore the next chapter for risk management in Islamic banking.
The following specific research questions are developed to address and inves-
tigate the broader research objectives:
(i) What are the top risks facing IFIs?
(ii) What is the risk appetite associated with each Islamic finance contract?
(iii) Does risk management in Islamic banking differ from conventional
banking?
(iv) Are Islamic banks more or less risky than their conventional peers?
(v) Are Basel II (and potentially Basel III) standards suitable for Islamic
banking?
(vi) What are the appropriate capital requirement levels for IFIs?
(vii) Is Islamic banking actually more resilient than conventional banking?
(viii) Could the recent crisis have occurred under an Islamic banking system?
(ix) How developed and significant is hedging to Islamic banking?
(x) Is there divergence between the current practice and moral principles of
Islamic banking?
(xi) How does the future look for Islamic banking? What strategies should IFIs
follow?
In answering the research questions, the impact of various categories of
respondents and their profile indicators on risk perception are also investigated.
RESEARCH HYPOTHESES
Based on the dichotomy that exists between theory and practice in analysing risk
management in Islamic banking, this research aims to explore and study the opin-
ions and risk perceptions of various groups of Islamic banking professionals with
the aim of answering the identified research questions.
The following research hypotheses were formulated to determine the param-
eters of the research questions:
(i) The main risks facing Islamic banks are reputational risk, Shari’ah-non-
compliance risk, asset–liability management risk, liquidity risk and concen-
tration risk.

--- Página 23 ---
Introduction
7
(ii) Islamic bankers prefer mark-up-based contracts and shy away from
profit-sharing contracts.
(iii) Profit-sharing contracts are perceived as more risky than mark-up-based
contracts.
(iv) There is no substantial difference between risk management in Islamic bank-
ing and conventional banking.
(v) Capital requirement levels should be lower in IFIs than in conventional
banks.
(vi) Basel II was drafted with conventional banking very much in mind. IFIs
should follow their own standards, e.g. IFSB Principles on capital adequacy.
(vii) Islamic banking is more resilient to economic shocks than is conventional
banking, but is not recession proof.
(viii) Not many Islamic banks use the more technically advanced risk measure-
ment and reporting techniques.
(ix) The use of risk measurement techniques is less advanced among Islamic
banks than among their conventional peers.
(x) Islamic banks use a number of risk mitigation tools that are intended to be
Shari’ah-compliant and that are less advanced than those utilised by con-
ventional banks.
(xi) Most IFIs abandoned conservative risk management Shari’ah principles in
favour of copying conventional structures.
(xii) There is strong potential for Islamic banking provided that it goes back to
its roots.
(xiii) Perceptions of Islamic and conventional bankers differ significantly, as
Islamic bankers are more biased toward their business model, and vice
versa.
The above hypotheses are further broken down into more refined
sub-hypotheses for testing purposes later in this research; these are presented in
the research methodology chapter (Chapter 6).
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY
This book has a particular significance as it attempts to provide a complete
overview of risk management in Islamic banking. This makes it a valuable
resource for both conventional and Islamic investors, as well as for IFIs,
researchers, consultants and policy-makers who are faced with the increasing
complexity of Islamic instruments. Risk management is receiving more attention
all over the world due to the subprime crisis, and for most IFIs, risk management
presents specific challenges.

--- Página 24 ---
8
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The existing body of knowledge demonstrates that research on risk man-
agement in Islamic banking is still scarce. Globally there has been a significant
increase in the literature on risk management over the past decade, especially dur-
ing the past two years. This has emerged largely because of a combination of
developments: first, there has been greater reflection on risk mitigation and man-
agement in the wake of frequent episodes of financial crisis; second, financial
diversification and product innovation have brought new dimensions and types of
risks to the forefront; third, the endeavours of the financial community to develop
and innovate financial architecture have resulted in financial institutions facing
different types of risk. Cross-segment mergers, acquisitions and financial consol-
idation have blurred the risks of various segments in the industry. However, these
developments have revolved around the conventional banking system, benefiting
incrementally from the financial engineering and innovation of esoteric products
and structures. While Islamic banking has grown substantively in the last few
years, appreciation of its risk architecture and profile is still evolving (Greuning
and Iqbal, 2008).
Reflecting the increased role of Islamic finance, the literature on Islamic
banking has also grown in the last decade. There is now a considerable amount of
research on the topic of IBF; nevertheless there are still large gaps in the coverage
of topics related to risk management. A large part of the literature focuses on
Islamic finance contracts, structures, roots of Islamic finance, comparisons of the
instruments used in Islamic and conventional banking, and the regulatory and
supervisory challenges related to Islamic banking. This is to be expected because
the initial focus of the whole Islamic finance industry was to create awareness of
Islamic finance and its basic concepts among a riba-dominated financial world.
Nevertheless, the last few years have witnessed a shift of focus in the literature
on Islamic banking toward more specialised areas like capital markets, mergers
and acquisitions, asset management, sukuk, structuring and product development,
innovation and standardisation. There is, however, relatively little research
conducted on risk management and capital requirements for Islamic banking;
such research includes studies by Haron and Hin Hock (2007), Iqbal and Mirarkor
(2007), Akkizidis and Khandelwal (2007), Grais and Kulathunga (2007),
Greuning and Iqbal (2007), Mahlknecht, M (2009), Sundararajan (2007), and
others as explored in Chapter 3.
Given the lack of sufficient research about risk management in Islamic
banking, there is even less empirical research available in this vital area. A limited
number of papers discuss risks in IFIs but they do so in academic terms instead
of pragmatic analysis of data. On the other hand, empirical papers on Islamic
banks focus on issues related to efficiency and financial stability, such as
Yudistira (2004), Moktar et al., (2006) and Heiko and Cihak (2008). But risk
management in Islamic banking has not been thoroughly analysed in an empirical

--- Página 25 ---
Introduction
9
fashion, with the exception of a handful of sources like the profound work done
by Khan and Ahmed (2001), Noraini et al. (2009) and Mahlknecht (2009).
In addition, the previous studies on risk management in Islamic banking only
highlight the issues without offering any feasible solutions. Therefore, this book
is considered distinct, and departs from previous studies by offering practical
and feasible recommendations to improve risk management architectures within
Islamic banking. Moreover, this study provides a larger sample size within the
wider populations in the Islamic banking industry, and includes a very well
diversified sample of respondents (geographically, by background, by the nature
of activities of their organisations, as well as by other control variables) to enable
the researcher to obtain better findings by conducting significance tests on the
differences between various groups. The survey findings are further enhanced by
in-depth interviews with senior Islamic banking professionals, which allow more
room for interviewees to express their views in a less formal and more open way
than in the structured questionnaire. The interview sample is also well diversified.
Finally, while a few scholars have researched the practical implementation
of risk management in Islamic banking, this book is the first of its kind to do so
after the recent credit crisis. The book extracts empirical evidence from the per-
ceptions of Islamic banking professionals and from the recent crisis to substantiate
the research process and the findings of the research.
OVERVIEW OF THE RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
In responding to the research questions outlined above, this book undertakes a
combination of two research methods: firstly, a comprehensive review of the exist-
ing literature and theory, and secondly, an empirical study to elicit opinions and
perceptions in response to the theory which is discussed in the literature. Both
quantitative and qualitative data analyses are used for this part.
In the first part of the research, the theoretical framework of this study was
constructed through the literature review, which is presented in a series of chapters.
The main literature sources were journals, conference proceedings, books, reports,
theses and bank regulators’ papers. Due to the fact that literature on risk manage-
ment in Islamic banking is scant, information and quotations from interviews are
used in the literature review to substantiate the argument. This may not accord
with convention; however, this strategy helped to provide a better understanding
by combining primary and secondary material on the subject matter.
The second part of the book is concerned with an empirical study which inves-
tigates the respondents’ perceptions of risk management issues in Islamic banking.
A survey technique using questionnaires is used in this context to obtain primary
data from the target sample of bankers, financiers and Shari’ah scholars. The

--- Página 26 ---
10
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
data was analysed using Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS) software.
In addition, semi-structured interviews are used to substantiate and compare the
questionnaire findings. A detailed description of the research process is presented
in Chapter 6.
OVERVIEW OF THE RESEARCH
This study consists of two major sections, namely background and empirical work.
Chapters 2 to 6 are the foundational chapters for the following five; these latter
form the empirical part of the book.
Following this brief introduction, the book continues with 10 closely
interrelated chapters. There is unavoidably some overlap of discussion and cross-
referencing. The overview of Chapters 2 to 11 is as follows:
Chapter 2 Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance reviews the existing
literature, texts and other relevant reference materials. In order to understand
the risks that IFIs face, this chapter first briefly discusses the nature of these
institutions with the objective of providing an introduction to Islamic banking
and its instruments; however, this is not intended to provide a detailed descrip-
tion of how Islamic financial products are structured. This chapter is divided
into three sections: the first explains the basic tenets of Islamic finance and the
most commonly used terms and contracts, the second discusses the important
financial instruments available and the market size, and the third looks at the
international standardisation bodies.
Chapter 3 Risk Management in Islamic Banks: A Theoretical Perspective
commences with an overview of risk management in general. After defining
and identifying different risks, specific issues related to risk management and
mitigation in Islamic banking are discussed. Risks are classified into two main
categories: risks which Islamic banks have in common with traditional banks
as financial intermediaries, and risks which are unique to Islamic banks due
to their compliance with the Shari’ah principles. The risk characteristics of
Islamic products and the complexities of some of these are rigorously exam-
ined. This chapter is based on both academic desk research and practical views
form the open interviews conducted.
As for Chapter 4 Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks: A Survey, realis-
ing the significance of capital in today’s Basel-dominated era, a designated
chapter is allocated to analysing capital adequacy for Islamic banks. This
chapter examines the need for capital and provides the rational and histori-
cal background of the Basel I, II and III frameworks. It then highlights the
detailed analysis of credit, market and operational risks that has been given

--- Página 27 ---
Introduction
11
by the Basel II Accord. Proposed amendments to the Accord after the recent
crisis and the proposed Basel III standards are discussed. The chapter then
examines the applicability of the three Pillars of Basel II to Islamic banking.
The chapter also signifies the link between the role of social responsibility of
Islamic finance and market disclosure. This chapter further identifies the key
role the Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB) plays in the development of
standards for risk management in the Islamic financial industry.
Chapter 5 focuses on Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis. In the-
ory, Islamic banks are more resilient to economic shocks than conventional
banks. Sadly, close mimicry of Western products in the pursuit of easy profits
caused Islamic banking to divert from the basic principles laid down more
than 1400 years ago. Hence, Islamic banks are currently feeling the effects
of the recession despite their limited exposure to higher-risk financial prod-
ucts. The recent crisis acts as a wake-up call; if Islamic banks learn the right
lessons, they could bounce back strongly. This chapter combines evidence
from the recent crisis with the principles discussed in the previous chapters to
prove that the Islamic financial system, specifically with its different approach
to risk, can act as panacea for economic woes.
Chapter 6 Research Framework and Methodology discusses the research
strategy and methodology adopted for the data collection process. It presents
in great detail the recommended research procedures by making reference
to the various research methodology textbooks on the appropriate research
process and technique to be used. The rationale and justifications for each
of the tools and techniques used throughout this study are also presented.
In addition, the chapter also presents more closely the refined research
sub-hypothesis which is to be tested in the analysis chapter.
Chapter 7 Profiling Perspectives on Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance:
Descriptive Questionnaire Data Analysis takes the research to the market
place by analysing data and presenting the results from a survey on risk
management issues in IFIs. It includes a demographic profile analysis and
also the core variables for the research. The purpose of this chapter is to
give an overview analysis of the findings from the survey. The descriptive
analysis benefited from a frequency analysis, which also includes the
frequency percentage, mean and standard deviations value for each
of the variables; this provides readers with grounding knowledge for the
overall results.
Chapter 8 Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management
Dimensions and Issues: Inferential Statistical Analysis presents further
analysis of the views and risk perceptions of respondents using inferential
statistical tools such as the Kruskal-Wallis test, factor analysis, MANOVA

--- Página 28 ---
12
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
multivariate analysis of variance and the Chi-Square tests. The results of the
analysis are discussed, interpreted and justified in great detail. The aim is
to explore the results in as much detail as possible from the data in order to
respond to the research questions.
Chapter 9 Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Prac-
tices in Islamic Banking: Interview Data Analysis is an analysis of the
semi-structured interviews conducted with a number of Islamic banking pro-
fessionals from banking institutions, consulting and law firms, academia and
rating agencies. A focused coding technique is used to analyse and sort the
findings. This chapter represents the findings of the qualitative analysis.
Chapter 10 Contextualising the Findings: An Interpretative Discussion
presents the overall discussion of the findings in Chapters 7, 8 and 9 by
responding to each of the research hypotheses. The chapter provides an in-
depth discussion of each of the hypotheses, and also makes cross-references
to the theory and findings of previous studies in order to link together all the
pertinent main findings in this study. The outcome of this chapter helps to
derive the overall conclusions of the study.
The last chapter, Chapter 11 Conclusion and Research Recommendations,
presents a summary of the major findings, recommendations and limitations,
and offers suggestions for future research.

--- Página 29 ---
CHAPTER2
Principles of Islamic Banking
and Finance
U
ntil the global credit crunch hit the capital and financial markets in the middle
of 2008, Islamic finance had enjoyed uninterrupted growth since the start of
the decade to become an industry with about USD 1 trillion in assets (Moody’s,
2011a). In terms of the size of the world’s finance industry as a whole, this is still
very small, less than a 1% share; but with nearly 25% of the world’s population
being Muslim, it is obvious that the potential for growth is enormous (Eedle, 2009).
The global potential market for Islamic finance is conservatively estimated at USD
4 trillion, whereas the actual size of the market is USD 1 trillion, or a market
share of 25%, which means that there is still around 75% of the market to capture
(Moody’s, 2011a).
Despite being presented as a new phenomenon, Islamic finance has been prac-
tised since the Middle Ages. It has risen in prominence over the last 30 years.
This is largely due to the growing financial resources of oil-producing countries
where Islam is the main religion, an increase in wealth and financial sophistica-
tion, and an increasing demand for financial services. In recent times, the emerging
Islamic banking sector has achieved acceptance in the Western world where there
is increasing interest in ethical finance, and funds managed by Islamic institutions
continue to grow.
In order to understand the risks that Islamic banks face, this chapter first
discusses the nature of Islamic banking. It also provides a brief introduction to
Islamic banking and its basic contracts, defines default in Islamic finance, and
distinguishes the elements of an Islamic bank’s risk profile that need to be evalu-
ated differently as compared to conventional banking. As an initial foundational
chapter, it paves the way for the following chapters analysing risk management in
Islamic banking. This chapter, however, is not designed to provide a detailed his-
tory of the origins and evolution of the industry, nor an in-depth analysis of how
Islamic financial products are structured.
13

--- Página 30 ---
14
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF ISLAMIC BANKING
AND FINANCE
In Western and Central Europe, modern financial institutions in both banking
and insurance started to evolve during the 17th century, notably in Britain, as a
response to the development of capitalism, and in part due to the development
of mathematical techniques in finance. The industrial revolution in the late 18th
and early 19th centuries provided the basis for their further growth. With the
dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, Britain and France established settlements
in a number of Arab countries that had formerly been part of the Empire, and
Western-style financial institutions were introduced. In the absence of Islamic
financial institutions (IFIs), those in need of financial services in these countries
turned to the Western-style or conventional banks and insurance companies,
without paying too much attention to their non-compliance with Shari’ah rules
and principles. In the case of savings, an alternative was simply to hold them in
the form of cash (AbdelKarim and Archer, 2005).
This institutionally passive financial behaviour began to change in the 1950s
and 1960s after these countries achieved political independence; which also put
the development of Muslim identity on the agenda. In fact, the initiation of mod-
ern Islamic finance dates back to 1962 with the establishment of Tabung Haji in
Malaysia, and the Mit Ghamr bank in Egypt in 1963 (Iqbal and Molyneux, 2005).
However, the institutionalisation of Islamic banking was not achieved until the
1970s, when a global network of Islamic banks started to emerge.
In the post-independence period changes took place in the political climate of
most Muslim nations and many Arab oil-exporting countries, which experienced
tremendous economic growth following the sharp rise in oil prices in 1973. Most of
the earnings from the sale of crude oil were surplus to the immediate needs of these
countries, leading to an increase in the circulated currency and commercial activ-
ity. This increased wealth gave rise to a major need for financial intermediation
for the investment of petrodollars, mainly outside the Middle Eastern and Mus-
lim countries, which had limited capacity to absorb such a volume of investment.
The situation constituted a major impetus for the development of Islamic bank-
ing institutions (AbdelKarim and Archer, 2005). This coincided with the growth
in Muslim identity construction which emerged from religious passion in several
Muslim countries calling for reform and for a return to basic Islamic principles.
Recent examples of such a search for Muslim identity through the medium of
various Islamic movements include Egypt, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Algeria, Jordan
and Palestine. In line with the Muslim search for identity, the substantial Muslim
populations increasingly sought to direct their financial surpluses and businesses
into Shari’ah-compliant or Islamic banks and financial institutions (Lewis and

--- Página 31 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
15
Algaoud, 2001). Thus, although the principles of Islamic finance have had roots
in the Holy Qur’an for the last 1400 years, modern Islamic banking emerged only
in the 1970s.
Islamic banking grew rapidly throughout the 1990s, and during the past few
years there have been significant developments in the world of Islamic banking and
finance (IBF). As a result, the industry has evolved from a regional business into
one of global scale. As part of this process, Islamic and Western financial institu-
tions (such as HSBC, BNP-Paribas, Citibank, Standard Chartered Bank, etc.) have
focused their attention on the growing customer demand for Shari’ah-compliant
financing, investments and insurance products. It is a fact that international banks
and other service providers are aware of the significant liquidity available in the
Middle East. The choice of Shari’ah-compliant investments has also broadened
and includes structured products, mutual funds, direct investments in initial public
offerings, leasing and real estate projects, discretionary portfolios and alternative
investment strategies like hedge funds, private equity, venture capital and Islamic
insurance (Takaful). Development in consumer financing has also been unprece-
dented, and consumer financing products today include Islamic mortgages, credit
cards, car finance, personal loans and lease finance.
Islamic banking today is viewed as one of the fastest-growing segments of the
Islamic financial industry. It has experienced double-digit growth, spurred by the
licensing of new banks, largely in local markets, the establishment of Islamic win-
dows and subsidiaries by major international banks, and partial or full conversion
of conventional banks into Islamic banks. Table 2.1 summarises the considerable
progress that has been made in almost all aspects of Islamic finance over the past
three decades.
With the internationalisation of Islamic finance, further progress was made
in developing capital markets. The pace of product innovation has increased, and
Islamic banking is currently the fastest-growing segment of the credit market in
Muslim countries. Recently IFIs have started moving toward equity funds, sukuk,
advanced treasury services, balance sheet management, and innovative asset
management.
Of notice is the recent rash of new Islamic bank start-ups, even during the
current market turbulence. In fact, there are many reasons why new IFIs have been
mushrooming across the board:
(i) Financial theory states that a booming and profitable market naturally attracts
new entrants because excess demand needs to be met by additional supply;
the Islamic finance market is driven by demand.
(ii) Financing needs in the retail sector are far from optimally served by the bank-
ing industry, especially in the Arab countries of the Muslim universe: retail

--- Página 32 ---
16
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 2.1
Modern history of developments in Islamic finance
Time Period
Development
Pre-1950s
Barclays Bank opens its Cairo branch to process financial
transactions related to construction of the Suez Canal in the
1890s. Islamic scholars challenge the operations of the bank,
criticising it for charging interest. This criticism spreads to other
Arab regions and to the Indian subcontinent, where there is a
sizable Muslim community.
The majority of Shari’ah scholars declare that interest in all its
forms amounts to the prohibited element of riba.
1950s–60s
Initial theoretical work on Islamic economics begins. By 1953,
Islamic economists offer the first description of an interest-free
bank based on either two-tier mudarabah or wakala.
Mitghamr Bank in Egypt and Pilgrimage Fund in Malaysia start
operations.
1970s
The first Islamic commercial bank, Dubai Islamic Bank, opens
in 1974.
The Islamic Development Bank (IDB) is established in 1975.
The accumulation of oil revenues and petrodollars increases the
demand for Shari’ah-compliant products.
1980s
The Islamic Research and Training Institute (IRTI) is established
by the IDB in 1981.
Banking systems are converted to interest-free banking systems
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in Pakistan and in the Sudan.
Increased demand attracts Western intermediation and
institutions.
Countries like Bahrain and Malaysia promote Islamic banking
parallel to the conventional banking system.
1990s
Attention is paid to the need for accounting standards and a
regulatory framework. A self-regulating agency, the Accounting
and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions
(AAOIFI), is established in Bahrain.
Islamic insurance (Takaful) is introduced.
Islamic equity funds are established.
The Dow Jones Islamic Index and the FTSE Index of
Shari’ah-compatible stock are developed.
2000–the present
The Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB) is established to
deal with regulatory, supervisory and corporate governance
issues of the Islamic finance industry.
Sukuk are launched and the Islamic capital market has emerged.
Islamic mortgages are offered in the US and UK.
Source: Based on data from Greuning and Iqbal (2008, p. 13)

--- Página 33 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
17
banking in the Middle East was discovered in the 1990s and there is still a lot
to do, especially in the mortgage sub-sector, where IFIs can offer attractive
solutions.
(iii) Governments have been very supportive of the Islamic financial industry,
mainly for two reasons: one is symbolic and consists of sponsoring one or
more institutions to show some form of state proselytism, and the other is
purely economic, as IFIs are a powerful means to fund large infrastructure
needs. Asset-backed, infrastructure and project finance is naturally in line
with the principle of Islamic finance, just like mortgage lending (Moody’s,
2009a).
As part of the developments, conventional banks that have been offering
Shari’ah-compliant products for years through Islamic windows in Asia, espe-
cially in Malaysia, are now establishing specialised Islamic subsidiaries. This
provides more visibility and clarity to the whole banking market, while doubtless
contributing to the success of Islamic finance in the country, following more than
two decades of government support for the alternative financial model, which
now controls more than 15% of the country’s banking assets (Moody’s, 2009a).
SIZE OF THE INDUSTRY
One of the most visible gaps in the infrastructure of the Islamic financial services
industry is the limited availability of systematic and reliable statistical informa-
tion (IFSB, 2007). Most resources, like Bloomberg (2009), Oliver Wyman (2009),
Standard & Poor’s (2010a) and recently IFSB (2018) agree that Islamic finance
represents 1% of global assets. These resources suggest that half of the 1.4 billion
Muslims worldwide would opt for Islamic finance if given a competitive alter-
native to conventional services, indicating economies of scope and scale for the
development of the Islamic finance industry.
According to Moody’s (2011a), the Islamic finance market has been growing
at over 30% annually since 2000 and is set for continued strong growth. At the
end of 2010, Islamic finance totalled USD 1 trillion in assets, which increased to
USD 2,050.2 trillion in 2017 (IFSB, 2018), implying over 100% growth in Islamic
financing activity including Islamic banking assets, sukuk outstanding, Islamic
funds, takaful contributions and USD 53 billion in revenues. It is expected to
double over the next five years. The opportunity is commanding attention beyond
Islamic incumbents, as witnessed by the spurt in Islamic start-ups and conventional
players opening Islamic windows. Due to such impressive developments, interest
in Islamic finance has spread beyond Muslim countries, and leading financial cen-
tres such as London and Luxembourg have been pushing to position themselves
as major Islamic finance hubs.

--- Página 34 ---
18
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
In recent years, the growth of Islamic banking assets has outstripped that
of conventional banking assets, even given the rapid system-wide asset growth.
According to Standard & Poor’s (2009), conventional banking assets had nearly
tripled between 2003 and 2008, while Islamic banking assets multiplied by
seven, albeit starting from a much lower base. Demand for Islamic banking
products has increased not only from retail customers, deemed to be those most
interested in Shari’ah-compliant products, but also from private sector corporate
and government-related entities. At the same time, financial innovation has
contributed to facilitating the supply of financial products and services, from
retail products, like housing or car financing programs, to more sophisticated
products like sukuk or mutual funds. On the supply side, some banks have opted to
be converted from conventional to Islamic banking, either through a full transfor-
mation or following a business diversification strategy. In fact, the most dynamic
growth in Islamic banking comes from conventional banks. It appears that they
have enlarged or transformed their product suite to attract new customers or avoid
losing existing ones. In addition, several governments of non-Muslim countries, in
particular the UK, have announced plans to issue sukuk in the past, but issues have
yet to materialise.
That said, the sort of asset growth witnessed prior to the financial crisis in
2007 and even in 2008, of around 25%, will not be repeated during the com-
ing few years. As detailed by IFSB (2018:12), the compound asset growth rate
in the Islamic banking sector was 8.8% between 2014 and 2017, while financing
grew by 8.8% and deposit growth rate was 9.4% As part of this slowdown, liq-
uidity ratios of Islamic banks are deteriorating, because banks are using their
own excess liquidity accumulated in the past to fund their incremental business
volumes. The developments demonstrate that funding is becoming increasingly
costly; retail depositors are more cautious and savvy corporate depositors are ask-
ing for better returns to compensate for their perception of mounting credit risk.
On the other side of the balance sheet, defaults of corporate and retail borrowers
are expected to rise sharply, which will trigger more conservative credit poli-
cies, lower credit volumes, and more provisioning charges. Asset classes like real
estate, sukuk, equity and private equity are expected to under-perform relative to
historical returns.
As Figure 2.1 and Table 2.2 show, the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) is
the largest market for IBF. It accounts for 42% of global Islamic finance assets
but its population remains a very small fraction of the global Muslim population.
While the share of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region in the global
Islamic finance industry was 29.1% in 2017, with the largest share being Iran,
the share of Asian countries remained at 24.4% with the largest share claimed
by Malaysia.

--- Página 35 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
19
Pakistan 1%
Egypt 1%
Sudan 2%
Others 1%
Brunei 1%
Oman 1%
Jordan 1%
Indonesia 2%
Bahrain 2%
Turkey 3%
Bangladesh 2%
Qatar 6%
Kuwait 6%
Iran 34%
Malaysia 9%
Saudi Arabia
20%
UAE 9%
FIGURE 2.1
Global Islamic banking assets by country
Source: IFSB (2018). Reproduced with permission from Islamic Financial Services Board
TABLE 2.2
Size of the Islamic finance industry (USD billion)
Region
Banking
Assets
Sukuk
Out-
standing
Islamic
Funds
Assets
Takaful
Contri-
butions
Total
Share
(%)
Asia
232.0
239.5
24.8
3.3
499.6
24.4
GCC
683.0
139.2
26.8
12.6
861.6
42.0
MENA (ex. GCC)
569.0
17.8
0.1
9.5
596.4
29.1
Africa (ex. North Africa)
27.1
2.0
1.6
0.7
31.4
1.5
Others
46.4
1.5
13.3
0.0
61.3
3.0
Total
1,557.5
399.9
66.7
26.1
2,050.2
100
Source: IFSB (2018). Reproduced with permission from Islamic Financial Services Board

--- Página 36 ---
20
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
PRINCIPLES OF ISLAMIC BANKING AND FINANCE
After providing a general introduction to the developments and trends in the
Islamic finance industry, it is essential to present the foundational principles
of IBF. These principles can be summarised by five core rules, three being
prohibition-related principles and two being positive measures (KPMG, 2006):
(i) The prohibition of interest (riba): No financial transaction should be based
on the payment or receipt of interest; hence, fixed return is prohibited in the
Islamic tradition. Therefore, profit from indebtedness or the trading of debts
is seen to be unethical. Instead, the investor and investee should share in the
risks and profits generated from a venture, an asset or a project.
(ii) The prohibition of uncertainty (gharar): Uncertainty in terms of a financial
contract is considered unlawful, but not risk per se. Consequently, speculation
(maysir) is forbidden. Therefore, financial derivatives are usually not permissi-
ble under Shari’ah-compliant finance despite the possible application for risk
mitigation or risk transfer.
(iii) The prohibition of unlawful (haram) assets: No financial transaction should
be directed toward economic and financial sectors considered unlawful accord-
ing to the Shari’ah, such as arms dealing or the tobacco or gambling industries,
as well as all enterprises for which financial leverage (indebtedness) would be
deemed excessive (including conventional banks).
(iv) The risk and profit and loss sharing (PLS) obligation: Parties to a financial
contract should share in the risks and rewards derived from such financing
or investment transactions. PLS converts the relationship from borrower and
lender to that of partners.
(v) The asset-backing obligation: Any financial transaction should be based on
a tangible, identifiable underlying asset. Thus, Islamic teaching encourages
financing economic activity through asset-based mechanisms as opposed to
the financialisation of the economy.
BASIC ISLAMIC FINANCING CONTRACTS
Based on the principles identified in the previous section, over many years a num-
ber of financial contracts have been developed and used within Muslim societies as
Shari’ah-compliant contracts. However, in recent years, with the financial devel-
opments in IBF, new products have also been engineered. Figure 2.2 presents a
brief overview of the main Islamic financial instruments; it is not the intention
of this section to explain those contracts in detail but rather to briefly explain the
basic foundations.

--- Página 37 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
21
Debt-Based
Contracts
Customer undertakes a debt obligation to the bank backed
by an asset, e.g., Murabahah, Salam, Istisna’a
Fee-Based
Contracts
Bank charges a fixed fee in exchange for a service provided
to the customer, e.g. Wakala, Ijara, Wadia
Participatory
Contracts
Bank and customer co-invest in a partnership agreement,
e.g. Mudarabah, Musharakah and Diminishing Mushraka
FIGURE 2.2
Overview of Islamic financial instruments
Source: Based on data from Oliver Wyman (2009)
Most contracts in Islamic banking are primarily based on (or are a combina-
tion of) the instruments identified in Figure 2.2.
Murabahah
According to murabahah contracts, one party (the seller) purchases commodities
from a supplier and sells the commodities to the other (the buyer) at an agreed
mark-up price. The profit generated by the on-sale is derived as a profit resulting
from a sale and is not treated as interest. Accordingly, buyers requiring cash will
immediately sell the commodities in the market to generate cash. Murabahah is
also commonly known as ‘cost-plus financing’ or ‘mark-up’.
The term murabahah contracts refers to a cost-plus transaction in which a
bank purchases a tangible asset required by a customer, and then re-sells it to
the customer at a predetermined profit. It involves three parties: the purchaser/
importer, the seller/exporter and the financier. The Islamic financier provides
finance by purchasing the desired commodity from a third party and reselling it to
the purchaser at a predetermined higher price (mark-up), payable in instalments
(Sundararajan and Errico, 2002). The key is that the financier must have a title to
the goods at some point in the transaction.
To date, commodity murabahah has been the backbone of IBF; it is a vital
product in Islamic finance, and it has been intensively used by IFIs for money
market transactions, investment and retail activities. While no accurate figures
exist for commodity murabahah volumes, industry experts estimate that at least
USD 3 billion worth of commodities are traded daily off the London Metal
Exchange (Over The Counter (OTC) Contracts). In 2013 it was stated that
USD 8–11 billion commodity transactions took place in the GCC region (Islamic
Finance News, 2013:4). This figure is likely to increase with the mounting interest
in Islamic finance.
Commodity murabahah has been heavily used as a mechanism for cash
generation; some refer to the transaction as tawarruq, which lexically means
‘generating cash’ in Arabic. However, this is not the purpose murabahah was

--- Página 38 ---
22
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
initially designed for. Shari’ah scholars are not pleased with this practice (pure
tawarruq). They are pushing more toward genuine murabahah through which the
bank buys the actual commodity (a car, furniture, appliances, etc.) and re-sells it
to the customer at a cost-plus margin (Consumer Finance).
Mudarabah (Profit-Sharing Agreement)
Mudarabah as an Islamic finance instrument is arranged between a bank (act-
ing as a silent partner) and one or more entrepreneurs. The bank provides the
entrepreneur with the funding for a specific commercial activity. However, the
entrepreneur does not contribute any funding themselves, but contributes man-
agement expertise. The entrepreneur earns an agreed portion of the profits (‘man-
agement fee’ or ‘mudarib fee’). In turn, the financial institution is guaranteed a
percentage of the profits (agreed upon beforehand) and assumes all of the risk in
terms of financial loss. This is accompanied by considerable risk, and therefore
the financial institution involved performs careful risk and credit analysis. On the
whole, mudarabah transactions account for less than 10% of worldwide Islamic
banking operations; it is similar to a Western-style limited partnership, with one
party contributing capital while the other runs the business, and profit is distributed
based on a negotiated percentage of ownership. Many banks use mudarabah to
mobilise funds through savings and investment accounts (Usmani, 2002).
Musharakah (Equity Participation)
Musharakah as an essential IBF instrument involves a partnership between the
bank and the entrepreneur: both contribute to the capital of the enterprise. An
equity financing arrangement is widely regarded as the purest form of Islamic
financing, where partners contribute capital to a project and share in both its risks
and rewards. In a musharakah contract, a formal contract is normally in place,
outlining the obligations and rights of both parties: profits can be allocated in any
pre-agreed ratio, and losses are borne in proportion to the capital of each partner
(Sundararajan and Errico, 2002). Musharakah conforms to the principle of PLS
and is suitable for long-term project financing; hence it is considered to be the
purest form of Islamic finance.
Ijarah and Ijarah wa-Iqtinah
Ijarah and ijarah wa-Iqtinah are Islamic leasing concepts similar to Western
operating and financial leases. Ijarah is similar to a conventional operating lease
whereby an Islamic bank (lessor) leases the asset to a client (lessee) for agreed-
upon payments and period of time, but with no option for ownership by the lessee.
The lessor takes the responsibility of maintaining and insuring the asset.

--- Página 39 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
23
Ijarha wa-Iqtinah, on the other hand, is comparable to a financial/capital lease
where the lessee has the option of owning the asset at the termination of the lease
(Akkizidis and Khandelwal, 2007). The conditions governing both types of leasing
are that assets must have a long secure productive life, and lease payments must
be agreed on in advance to avoid any speculation. The price of the asset at the end
of the contract period cannot be predetermined, and can only be determined when
the lease contract is terminated.
Under Islamic leasing the lessee is obliged to start making lease payments
only after the leased asset has actually been delivered. If that asset were destroyed,
the lessee would cease making payments to the lessor, a practice that is contrary
to most Western lease financing.
Istisna’a
Istisna’a as a concept offers a number of future structuring possibilities used
mostly to finance long-term large-scale facilities. It is basically a contractual
agreement whereby a party undertakes to produce a specific thing according to
certain agreed-upon specifications at a determined price and for a fixed date of
delivery. This undertaking of production includes any process of manufacturing,
construction, assembly or packaging. In istisna’a, the work is not conditioned
to be accomplished by the undertaking party and this work or part of it can be
done by others under their control and responsibility. The price may be paid in
advance or in instalments, according to the preference of the parties (Iqbal and
Llewellyn, 2002). Istisna’a is thus a certain form of futures market which enables
an entrepreneur to sell their output to the bank at a predetermined price. It is a
profit-mark-up contract similar to a murabahah; however, the istisna’a deal can
relate to something not in existence at the time of signing the contract, while
murabahah is an order to buy commodities which are in existence, in hand or
available in the market.
Wakala
Wakala is a financial relationship between principal and agent. The contract of
wakala means designating a person or legal entity to act on one’s behalf or as
one’s representative. It has been a common practice to appoint an agent (wakil) to
facilitate trade operations.
A wakala contract gives a power of attorney or an agency assignment to a
financial intermediary to perform a certain task. On the surface, there does not
appear to be much difference between a mudarabah and a wakala contract, since
both are principal–agent contracts. However, the main difference is that in the case
of mudarabah the mudarib has full control and freedom to utilise funds according

--- Página 40 ---
24
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
to their professional knowledge, as opposed to the case of wakala where the wakil
does not have similar freedom (Siddiqi, 1983). A wakil acts only as a represen-
tative to execute a particular task according to the instructions given. Recently,
more banks have been using walaka for money market transactions to replace
the commodity murabahah, which involve more complications and raise Shari’ah
concerns when used for generating cash (tawarruq), as previously discussed. An
Islamic bank can accept or place wakala, whereas a conventional bank can only
use wakala placements to deposit with an Islamic counterparty.
Bai’ Salam
Salam is also known as ‘forward sale’. It was originally allowed to meet the
needs of small farmers who required money during the harvesting period to meet
expenses. In this transaction the bank pays the seller in advance the full agreed
price of a specified quality and quantity of a commodity that the latter promises
to deliver in the future. The entire price has to be paid in advance.
This form of finance is similar to forward purchase, and it has been applied
in the case of agricultural products as their seasonality signifies the need for such
finance. It should be noted that salam exposes banks to market risk, especially fluc-
tuations in commodity prices. To avoid this, modern bankers are using the ‘parallel
salam’, where a bank enters into two simultaneous agreements for the same future
date, one as a buyer and the other as a seller; this takes care of commodity price
fluctuations to a certain extent, but still requires managing the risk of non-delivery
of the commodity on the due date (Usmani, 2002).
Other Islamic Financial Products
Other than the main Islamic finance contracts discussed above, there are several
variants of different instruments available in the market. Some of the popular ones
are briefly described below. However, sukuk as a financial instrument is discussed
in detail in the following section.
(i) Hibah: Hibah is a form of gift used to repay account holders in an Islamic
bank. Current account and savings account holders in an Islamic bank do not
get any interest; however, at the end of the year the bank, at its discretion, can
give some hibah as a part of its compensation to the account holders (Iqbal
and Mirakhor, 2007).
(ii) Musawama: Musawama is very similar to murabahah, except that the seller
does not need to disclose the cost of goods (Moody’s, 2009a).
(iii) Qard Hassan: Qard hassan is a loan on a goodwill basis which is totally
free of any extra cost. The debtor is required to return only the principal

--- Página 41 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
25
borrowed amount, although they may return anything extra, whatever they
feel appropriate. This is a true riba-free loan (Usmani, 2002).
(iv) Wadiah: In the case of wadiah, the bank works as the trustee for funds
of customers. However, the bank does not guarantee any interest but can
give some hibah, which can compensate customers (Iqbal and Mirakhor,
2007).
SUKUK : A STEP TOWARD SECURITISATION
As an extensively used financial instrument in recent years, sukuk is not a contract
on its own, but rather is a product based on one or more Islamic finance contracts
that was introduced in order to address the asset/liability dichotomy in Islamic
banking. Prior to 2000, this particular market was virtually non-existent, but in
the past few years it has experienced tremendous growth.
What is Sukuk?
Sukuk is an Arabic term meaning ‘certificate’. In a financial sense, sukuk may be
understood as a Shari’ah-compliant ‘bond’. In its simplest form sukuk represents
ownership of an asset or its usufruct. The claim embodied in sukuk is not simply
a claim to cash flow but an ownership claim. This also differentiates sukuk from
conventional bonds as the latter proceed over interest-bearing securities, whereas
sukuk are basically investment certificates consisting of ownership claims in a pool
of assets (Dar Al Istithmar, 2006).
Sukuk (plural of sak) were extensively used by Muslims in the Middle Ages
as papers representing financial obligations originating from trade and other com-
mercial activities. However, the present structures of sukuk are different from the
sukuk originally used and are akin to the conventional concept of securitisation:
a process in which ownership of the underlying assets is transferred to a large
number of investors through certificates representing proportionate value of the
relevant assets (Askari et al., 2009).
Types of Sukuk
Sukuk can be of many types (14 eligible sukuk types have been identified by the
AAOIFI), depending upon the type of Islamic modes of financing and trades used
in its structuring. However, the most common category in the market is ijara
sukuk, which are backed by leases and often guaranteed by sovereign or regional
governments. Because of the predominance of ijara sukuk, these transactions
are commonly viewed as the de facto benchmarks in the Islamic marketplace.

--- Página 42 ---
26
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Ijara sukuk are structured around a specific asset, such as a building, property or
infrastructure facility. The asset itself is sold to a special-purpose entity that then
issues the sukuk to fund the asset’s purchase price. The special-purpose entity
then leases the asset and receives periodic lease payments. At maturity, or in the
event of dissolution, the special-purpose entity sells the asset back to the original
seller at a predetermined price that includes any outstanding amounts still owed
under the terms of the ijara sukuk (Standard & Poor’s, 2010a).
Developments in the Sukuk Market
Sukuk growth has been a factor in local debt capital markets, which were also
virtually non-existent before 2000. Taking advantage of sukuk was a much-needed
solution to the problem of increasing Islamic banks’ funding options. Sukuk allow
Islamic banks to allocate excess funds to alternative classes of instruments; they
have, thus, helped banks to move away from conventional strategies related to
equity and property alone. Similarly, sukuk varieties have been used by Islamic
banks as tools in their investment portfolios to hedge against their more volatile
credit exposures.
After two turbulent years, Standard & Poor’s (2011) stated that the sukuk mar-
ket was back on track. Issuance reached a record high of USD 51.2 billion in 2010,
including those issued and maturing that same year. This represented about 26%
of the cumulative amount of issuances since 1996 and beats the previous peak in
2007 by 34%. The revival of sukuk issuance in 2011 indicated that the depth and
breadth of sukuk issuance will continue to hinge on the extent of the global eco-
nomic recovery. This is notably crucial for the return of corporate sukuk issuers,
including financial institutions, which fell from an average of about 65% over
2001–2007 to a mere 12% of issuance in 2010. In geographic terms, the regional
economic slowdown since mid-2008 curtailed the financing needs of Gulf issuers.
In doing so, it re-centred the sukuk market growth on its historical engine and
mainstay, Malaysia, which accounted for 78% of sukuk in 2010. As can be seen
in Figure 2.2, sukuk issuance reached its peak in 2012 with about USD 130 bil-
lion, and later experienced gradual decreases in 2013 and 2014 due to the liquidity
shortage caused by the sharp decline in oil revenues in the Gulf region. In 2015,
sukuk issuance sharply decreased to about USD 65 billion, which remains the low-
est level since the recovery in 2011. As stated by IFSB (2018:25), sukuk issuance
demonstrated a gradual increase in 2016 and 2017, reaching about USD 92 billion
in 2017. This indicates a robust approximately 23% increase over the USD 75 bil-
lion sukuk issuance in 2016. Figure 2.3 depicts the developments and trends in the
sukuk issuance over the years.
Standard & Poor’s (2011) does not foresee that non-Muslim countries will
change the shape of the market over the medium term. During the crisis, Western

--- Página 43 ---
$8.0
$11.0
$20.1
$20.1
$9.0
$3.5
$9.0
$20.0
$39.0
$32.0
$23.6
$20.7
$15.4
$1.4
$15.4
$1.2
$5.9
$14.9
$7.3
$24.5
$36.1
$65.1
$92.2
$87.7
$95.2
$43.6
$59.4
$9.4
$76.1
$12.2
$26.0
$35.0
$16.3
$28.0
$45.1
$85.1
$131.2
$119.7
$118.8
$64.3
$74.8
2004
$91.5
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
Corporate
Sovereign*
Global sukuk issuance historical trend
Global sukuk issuance 2004-2017 in bn
*Includes all government-related entities (GREs), multilateral development banks (MDBs) and international organisations (IOs). For the purposes of this book,
‘GREs’ refers to sukuk obligors with a shareholding structure representing more than two-thirds (66.67%) of government ownership through ministries,
authorities, etc. or other GREs such as sovereign wealth funds.  
FIGURE 2.3
Global sukuk issuance 2004–2017
Source: IFSB (2018:25). Reproduced with permission from Islamic Financial Services Board
27

--- Página 44 ---
28
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
investors showed a marked interest in sukuk, partly because their average yield
had been slightly higher than that available on a ‘plain vanilla’ comparable con-
ventional instrument, owing to the structured nature and lower liquidity of sukuk.
However, it is believed that this trend will slow down once rates begin to rise,
which will increase the average yield of conventional bonds.
In addition, Moody’s (2011a) expect that the complex web of socioeconomic,
political and religious issues in many non-Muslim countries is holding back
any swift uptake of sukuk. Instead, it is argued that the market’s future lies with
countries whose economies have been less affected by the crisis, namely the
GCC and South East Asia. The broader global demand for sukuk still depends on
increasing their liquidity and standardising Shari’ah interpretation. The devel-
opments, however, indicate that the market needs leaders to provide vision and
direction, to take the domestic and compartmentalised initiatives of various coun-
tries toward clear international and standardised market principles (Standard &
Poor’s, 2011).
The market is yet to witness the first convincing and sizable sukuk issuance
from a European or non-Muslim Asian country since the debut involving the
five-year €100 million German State of Saxony Anhalt sukuk in 2004. The UK,
which has been the most likely, active and vocal candidate since its announcement
in 2007 of a planned Sterling-denominated sukuk, backtracked in January 2011,
citing lack of value for money. In June 2014, the UK government issued £200
million sovereign sukuk, which made the UK the first non-Muslim-majority
country to issue sovereign sukuk. The South Korean government, meanwhile,
failed in December 2010 to pass an amendment that would remove the tax
disadvantage of sukuk compared with conventional bonds, but it will try again
in the near future. The effect of these international setbacks to the sukuk may
reverberate on other prospective issuers. Most of these non-Muslim countries
have announced their intention to enter the sukuk market for opportunistic
reasons, such as to tap the much-coveted liquidity available in the GCC countries
or Asia; but it remains doubtful that they would do this at any cost (Standard &
Poor’s, 2011). However, in recent years, Luxembourg, South Africa and Hong
Kong have issued sovereign sukuk, which has given a new momentum for the
expansion of Islamic capital markets beyond the traditional jurisdictions.
Furthermore, one of the interviewees in this research, Qaedi (2010), explains
that the market is now moving toward listed instruments, both in international
markets and in local markets such as Dubai, Malaysia or Saudi Arabia. The
majority of sukuk to date have been issued in the form of over-the-counter instru-
ments that investment bankers developed to fit the specific needs of issuers, and
then privately placed to meet the needs of investors. Listing sukuk on organised
markets is important for the liquidity of the instrument itself, and also makes it
easier for investors to manage, both in terms of liquidity and price discovery.

--- Página 45 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
29
The main uncertainty within sukuk lies in current market conditions. The
default of some sukuk has raised questions about this relatively young market.
These sukuk were issued by East Cameron Partners (ECP), The Investment Dar
(TID) and Saad Group. Sukuk issued by Nakheel PJSC avoided default thanks
to a last-minute support package. Once investors have a clearer view of the
possible outcome of the two recent defaults, the sukuk market is likely to grow
more strongly, perhaps after making some adjustments reflecting lessons learned.
Beyond 2010, a major impediment to the emergence of an integrated, global
sukuk market remains in the lack of standardisation, especially regarding Shari’ah
compliance and the legal environment. Another major problem is the liquidity
squeeze in the Gulf region, which was considered a potential adverse impact.
However, the trends demonstrate that after the initial impact, the sukuk market
is again on the rise, in particular with new entrants such as Indonesia, Nigeria,
Pakistan and Turkey among others.
Abdul-Ghani (2009) explains that despite enormous success, the sukuk market
is not as deep or liquid as a regular bond market. Regardless of growing demand
fuelled by banks, corporations and governments in the GCC region, there is a
shortage of supply. Additionally, the sukuk market is still stagnant: holders keep
their bonds to maturity and there is relatively little secondary market trading.
The ability to trade their bond portfolios gives banks the flexibility to adjust their
asset–liability management process to their liking and to hedge themselves against
sudden movements in asset prices by matching durations on both sides.
So far, IBF institutions have preferred an originate-and-hold business model
due to the lack of a secondary market for loans and sukuk; however, in the longer
term, IBF institutions with limited capital resources might be more inclined to
adopt an originate-and-distribute business approach, provided disintermediation
picks up, market depth and liquidity improves, and growth in Islamic assets con-
tinues unabated.
As depicted by Figure 2.4, the Malaysian ringgit (MYR) has been the currency
of choice every year since the inception of the market, with ringgit-denominated
sukuk representing about 59% of total issuance over the period from 1996 to 2010
or more than twice the US dollar-denominated ones. Malaysia has notably funded
infrastructure projects with ringgit-denominated sukuk, since Islamic investors
tend to prefer asset-backed projects. But ringgit-denominated issuance is not lim-
ited to Malaysian issuers. The National Bank of Abu Dhabi issued the equivalent
of a combined $325 million in the Malaysian currency in June and December 2010
to tap a deeper sukuk market (Standard & Poor’s, 2011). US dollar-denominated
sukuk made up only about 8% of sukuk issued in 2010, which has demonstrated
some significant change since then. Any pickup in dollar-denominated issuances
would likely follow a pickup in the GCC region, which has most of its currencies
fully or partially pegged to the US dollar.

--- Página 46 ---
30
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Global sukuk issuance by country
Global sukuk issuance 2018 by country in %
Iran
34%
UAE
9%
Malaysia
9%
Kuwait
6%
Qatar
6% 
Turkey
3%
Bangladesh
2%
Indonesia
2%
Bahrain
2%
Sudain 2%
Pakistan
1%
Egypt
1%
Jordan 1%
Oman 1%
Brunei 1%
Others
1%
Saudi Arabia
20%
FIGURE 2.4
Global sukuk issuance by country 2018
Source: IFSB (2018). Reproduced with permission from Islamic Financial Services Board
While mudarabah, musharakah and ijara are widely applied, the actual legal
structure behind the sukuk risk characteristics can vary significantly, even within
a single ‘type’. According to Zawya (2011), ijara and murabahah structures
accounted for about three-quarters of total sukuk issued in 2010, and this trend
is expected to continue for the next few years. The remainder was in the form
of istithmar, wakala, musharakah and salam structures. Thus, until there is
some broad consensual standardisation in sukuk, investors will need to look at
each structure individually to understand the cash flow, risk and return profile,
irrespective of the type of sukuk structure used.
Due to the availability of a large variety of sukuk structures in the market,
detailed discussion of the sukuk is beyond the scope of this book and hence has
not been dealt with. Chapter 3 looks at sukuk from a risk management perspective,
while Chapter 5 discusses a new phenomenon in sukuk: default.

--- Página 47 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
31
ISLAMIC BANKING VERSUS CONVENTIONAL
BANKING
The previous sections aimed to provide information regarding the foundational
principles and salient futures of IBF as well as developments and trends in the
IBF sector. As has been mentioned, the overarching principle of Islamic banking
is that all forms of interest are prohibited. The Islamic financial model works on
the basis of risk-sharing (Mirakhor and Zaidi, 2007), as explained by Khandelwal
(FRSGlobal, 2009): “because interest is prohibited under Shari’ah law, suppliers
of funds become investors instead of creditors. The provider of financial capital
and the entrepreneur share business risk in return for shares of the profits, and this
has an impact on risk management”. However, the use of profit-sharing modes in
Islamic banks changes the nature of the risks that these institutions face, as shown
in Figure 2.5.
Islamic finance is based on the concept of profit- and risk-sharing and
avoidance of the concept of interest. This means that the finance provider is not
automatically entitled to payment in full of principal and periodic distributions,
but that risk needs to be taken by the finance provider, along with the borrower.
This contrasts with the conventional/Western concept of lending, which results
in a number of considerations that need to be taken into account when assessing
the risk profile of an Islamic bank. Table 2.3 summarises on high level the main
differences between Islamic finance and conventional finance.
interest
defaults
Conventional
banking
Islamic
banking
Creditors
Investors
Supplier of funds
profit + loss
profit-and-loss
RISKs
profit-and-loss
Bank
Bank
Counterparty
Counterparty
profit + loss
profit + loss
Risk in conventional banks compared to Islamic banks
Risk in conventional banks compared to Islamic banks
FIGURE 2.5
Risks in conventional banks versus those in Islamic banks
Source: Adapted from FRSGlobal (2009)

--- Página 48 ---
32
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 2.3
Differences between Islamic finance and conventional finance
Conventional Finance
Islamic Finance
Primarily based on interest rate
Interest is prohibited
Facilitates financial activities
Facilitates social, economic and financial
activities
Structured and formalised
Unstructured and still informal in many
ways
Stress on financial efficiency
Stress on social, ethical and financial
efficiency
Restricted moral dimension
Strong moral dimension
Highly systematised in terms of risk
management, accounting and other
standards
Standards for risk management, accounting
and other activities are still developing
Existing set of legislation to deal with
legal issues
Legal support still in development with
several legal areas under doubt
Highly developed banking and
financial product market
Developing banking and financial product
market
Existence of conventional money
market
Non-existence of significant Islamic
money market
Availability of interbank funds
Non-availability of interbank funds
Strong and developed secondary
market for securities
Non-existing secondary market for
securities
Existence of short-term money market
Non-existence of short-term money market
Source: Adapted from Akkizidis and Khandelwal (2007:3)
It is also critical to develop an understanding of the spectrum of the risk and
return profiles of different Islamic financial instruments. Often the Islamic finan-
cial system is equated with an all-equity-based system, which ignores the fact that
the system also has several other types of contract which are not based on PLS.
Contracts such as sales, trade financing and leasing constitute a large portion of
the system, but these contracts are not based on equity (Iqbal and Mirakhor, 2007).
The existence of such non-equity-based instruments has an important implication:
these instruments have a risk/return profile that is very similar to a conventional
fixed-income security.
In addition, Islamic banking, despite having been in existence in its mod-
ern form for over three decades, is still in many respects an infant industry, as
depicted in Figure 2.6. Islamic banks are striving to build their reputation by
exploiting ‘blind spots’ in the market and by trying to develop competitive advan-
tage. They are in serious rivalry for customers’ loyalty and face high levels of

--- Página 49 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
33
High
Introduction
Growth
Conventional
banking
Islamic banking
Maturity
Decline
Performance
Low
Time
• Few players
• High margins
• New products
• ‘Copy cat’ players
• Declining margins
• Product development
 minimal
• Rationalisation
• Stable margins
• New product development
• Loss of competitive edge
• Declining margins
• No product development
FIGURE 2.6
Development stages of Islamic banking
uncertainty. Conventional banking, on the other hand, is at a mature stage. The
market is dominated by powerful players, and entrepreneurial actions continue
but are greatly de-emphasised.
As discussed, the core principles of Islamic finance, especially the PLS char-
acteristic, have unique risk management implications. In conventional banking, if
the payment of outstanding commitments is not timely or not in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the obligations then default has occurred. However,
in Islamic banking, if PLS obligations were in fact to absorb losses, this would
not in itself be viewed, at least in theory, as a default event, as investors have
contractually agreed to share in losses (Chowdhury, 2010).
It should be noted that Chapter 3 explores these risk management implications
in detail.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS IN ISLAMIC
BANKING AND FINANCE INDUSTRY
The private sector has been much more active than the public sector in the growth
of Islamic finance, as development in Islamic finance is mainly due to economic

--- Página 50 ---
34
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
liberalisation and hence the private sector. However, a number of governments,
such as those of Bahrain and Malaysia, have made serious efforts to establish finan-
cial centres for IFIs. An institutional infrastructure to support the development
of the financial sector is slowly emerging with collaboration between the private
and public sectors. Such developments include institutions to deal with accounting
and regulatory standards, corporate governance, credit ratings and capital markets.
These efforts to develop institutions are also supported by several stakeholders
such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), central banks of leading Muslim
countries, international standard-setting bodies and financial centres (Askari et al.,
2009). These institutions are depicted in Table 2.4 with their functional roles.
Al-Ghamrawy (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, stated,
however, that “there are several fine organizations dedicated to the promotion of
Islamic finance across various jurisdictions. The problem is that they do not well-
co-ordinate with each other.” Figure 2.7 lays out the institutional developments
in IBF. The degree of maturity of Islamic institutions is much lower than that of
the conventional system. However, driven by industry research and inspired by
international linkages, these institutions are continuously evolving.
The main institutions in the institutionalisation of IBF are explained in brief
as follows:
Islamic Development Bank (IDB): The IDB was established in 1975 as a
regional development institution to promote economic development in Muslim
countries through Islamic finance. Since its creation, the IDB has established
several sister institutions to develop private sector insurance facilities and trade
and export financing. Additionally, the IDB has played a key role in developing
institutional infrastructure to promote Islamic financial systems. Some notable
contributions of the IDB are institutions to enhance the regulatory framework and
standardisation of the Islamic banking industry, such as: the AAOIFI; the IFSB;
the General Council of Islamic Banks and Financial Institutions (GCIBFI); the
International Islamic Financial Market (IIFM); the Islamic International Rating
Agency (IIRA); the Liquidity Management Centre (LMC); and the Interna-
tional Islamic Centre for Reconciliation and Commercial Arbitration (IICRA)
(Askari et al., 2009).
Islamic Research and Training Institute (IRTI): The IRTI, the research
arm of IDB, was established in 1981 to undertake research, training and
knowledge-generation activities in Islamic finance. The IRTI has become a centre
of knowledge dissemination by developing a rich resource centre for research
through collections of in-house research papers, seminar proceedings, lectures,
translations, journals and articles (Askari et al., 2009).
Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions
(AAOIFI): In 1991 the AAOIFI was established in Bahrain as a self-regulation

--- Página 51 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
35
TABLE 2.4
Key institutions in the Islamic financial industry
Acronym
Organisation
Function
IDB
Islamic Development
Bank
Development institution formed in 1975 to
promote Islamic finance and economic
development
Member/ sister organisations:
ICD – Islamic Corporation for the
Development of the Private Sector
ICIEC – Islamic Corporation for the
Insurance of Investment and Export Credit;
Islamic insurance company, providing
insurance products for investments and
export credits
IRTI – Islamic Research and Training
Institute; Research and training arm
ITFC – International Islamic Trade
Finance Corporation
Solidarity Fund – To reduce poverty in
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)
countries
ARCIFI – Arbitration and Reconciliation
Centre for Islamic Financial Institutions
AAOIFI
Accounting & Auditing
Organization for Islamic
Financial Institutions
Accounting and Shari’ah standard-setting
body
IFSB
Islamic Financial Services
Board
Standard-setting institution to ensure best
practices and help member countries with
regulating Islamic financial institutions
IIFM
International Islamic
Financial Markets
Trade association to promote capital
markets
IIRA
Islamic International
Rating Agency
Rating agency
LMC
Liquidity Management
Centre
Institution to provide liquidity
enhancement to the financial system
CIBAFI
General Council of
Islamic Banks and
Financial Institutions
Trade association of Islamic banks to
enhance member institutions’ ability to
better service customers around the world
through transparent banking practices
Source: Askari et al. (2009:39). © John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reproduced with permission

--- Página 52 ---
36
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Shari’ah Board
Fiqh Academy
(Jeddah) 
International
Islamic
Financial
Architecture  
National Country
Systems (Regulators and
Standards Boards) 
The Islamic
Financial
Institution
International
Islamic Financial
Markets
(Bahrain)
Islamic Financial
Services Board
(Malaysia)
Accounting and
Auditing
Organization for
Islamic Financial
Institutions
(Bahrain)
Islamic
Development
Bank Group
(Jeddah)
FIGURE 2.7
Institutional developments in Islamic finance
Notes: The dashed arrow depicts advisory roles; the solid arrow depicts supervisory roles.
agency for the industry to tackle the problem of Shari’ah compliance and gaps
in applying conventional financial reporting standards to Islamic banks. The
AAOIFI’s membership consists of about 97 institutions spanning over 24 coun-
tries, and it has issued around 50 standards on accounting, auditing, governance,
ethical and Shari’ah standards. The AAOIFI’s Shari’ah board is paving the way
toward Shari’ah harmonisation of banking practices throughout the world. The
banking supervisors in a number of countries, such as Bahrain, Jordan and Sudan,
require Islamic banks to comply with the AAOIFI standards or, as in the case of
Qatar and Saudi Arabia, are specifying these standards as guidelines (Greuning
and Iqbal, 2008).
Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB): The AAOIFI was successful
in defining accounting and Shari’ah standards, while the IFSB was officially
inaugurated in November 2002 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, with the help of the
IMF, to address systemic stability and various regulatory issues relating to the
Islamic financial services industry. As of June 2011, the 195 members of the IFSB
included 49 regulatory and supervisory authorities as well as the IMF, World Bank,
BIS, IDB, Asian Development Bank, Islamic Corporation for the Development of

--- Página 53 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
37
Private Sector, Saudi Arabia, and 138 market players and professional firms
operating in 39 jurisdictions (IFSB, 2011). The government of Malaysia has
enacted the IFSB Act 2002, which gives the IFSB the immunities and privileges
usually granted to international organisations and diplomatic missions (Greuning
and Iqbal, 2008). The primary objective of the IFSB is to develop uniform
regulatory and transparency standards to address characteristics specific to IFIs,
keeping in mind the national financial environment, international standards, core
principles and good practices. The IFSB has made significant contributions in the
areas of corporate governance, risk management and regulation. The IFSB issued
a number of guiding principles on risk management, capital adequacy, corporate
governance and transparency in IBF. Archer and Abdul Karim (2007) highlight
that in spite of the high quality of these standards, they have been adopted in only
a handful of countries, which are listed and depicted in Table 2.5.
General Council of Islamic Banks and Financial Institutions (CIBAFI):
Formed in 2001, CIBAFI is a non-profit organisation based in Manama, Bahrain,
which provides information and services to the Islamic financial services industry.
CIBAFI focuses on media and awareness, information and research, and strategic
planning in relation to the IBF industry (IFSB, 2007).
Liquidity Management Centre (LMC): The LMC was founded in 2002
in Bahrain to facilitate the investment of surplus funds of IFIs into financial
instruments structured in accordance with Shari’ah principles. The key objective
of the LMC is to facilitate the creation of an interbank money market that
will allow IFIs to more effectively manage their asset/liability mismatch
through participation as both investors and borrowers (Mahlknecht, 2009).
In addition, the Centre attracts assets from governments, financial institu-
tions and corporates in both the private and public sectors in many countries.
The assets are securitised into readily transferable securities or structured into
other innovative investment instruments (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008). The equal
shareholders include Bahrain Islamic Bank, Dubai Islamic Bank, IDB and Kuwait
Finance House.
International Islamic Financial Market (IIFM): The Bahrain-based IIFM
was created in 2002 as cooperation between various supervisory authorities of
Islamic countries. The major objectives of the IIFM are (a) to address the liquidity
problem by expanding the maturity structure of instruments, and (b) to help in
the creation of secondary market activity with designated market makers where
such instruments can be actively traded. The IIFM focuses on standardisation and
harmonisation within the industry. Its primary focus is the advancement and uni-
fication of Islamic financial documents, structures and contracts (Wilson, 2009).
It signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the International Capital Market
Association (ICMA) to develop a master repurchase (repo) agreement to help

--- Página 54 ---
38
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 2.5
IFSB Standards
Publication
Year
Published Standards:
IFSB-1: Guiding Principles of Risk Management for Institutions
(other than Insurance Institutions) offering only Islamic Financial
Services (IIFS)
December 2005
IFSB-2: Capital Adequacy Standard for Institutions (other than
Insurance Institutions) offering only Islamic Financial Services
(IIFS)
December 2005
IFSB-3: Guiding Principles on Corporate Governance for
Institutions Offering Only Islamic Financial Services (Excluding
Islamic Insurance (Takaful) Institutions and Islamic Mutual Funds)
December 2006
IFSB-4: Disclosures to Promote Transparency and Market
Discipline for Institutions offering Islamic Financial Services
(excluding Islamic Insurance (Takaful) Institutions and Islamic
Mutual Funds)
December 2007
IFSB-5: Guidance on Key Elements in the Supervisory Review
Process of Institutions offering Islamic Financial Services
(excluding Islamic Insurance (Takaful) Institutions and Islamic
Mutual Funds)
December 2007
GN-1: Guidance Note in Connection with the Capital Adequacy
Standard: Recognition of Ratings by External Credit Assessment
Institutions (ECAIs) on Shari’ah-Compliant Financial Instruments
March 2008
IFSB-6: Guiding Principles on Governance for Islamic Collective
Investment Schemes
January 2009
IFSB-7: Capital Adequacy Requirements for Sukuk,
Securitisations and Real Estate Investment
January 2009
IFSB-8: Guiding Principles on Governance for Takaful (Islamic
Insurance) Undertakings
December 2009
IFSB-9: Guiding Principles on Conduct of Business
December 2009
IFSB-10: Guiding Principles on Shari’ah Governance Systems for
Institutions Offering Islamic Financial Services
December 2009
IFSB-11: Standard on Solvency Requirements for Takaful (Islamic
Insurance) Undertakings
December 2010
Other Documents:
Issues in Regulation and Supervision of Takaful (Islamic
Insurance) by IFSB and International Association of Insurance
Supervisors
August 2006

--- Página 55 ---
Principles of Islamic Banking and Finance
39
TABLE 2.5
(Continued)
Publication
Year
Islamic Financial Services Industry Development: Ten-Year
Framework and Strategies
May 2007
Compilation Guide on Prudential and Structural Islamic Finance
Indicators: Guidance on the Compilation and Dissemination of
Prudential and Structural Islamic Finance Indicators for Banking
and Near-Banking Institutions Offering Islamic Financial Services
November 2007
TN-1: Technical Note on Issues in Strengthening Liquidity
Management of Institutions Offering Islamic Financial Services:
The Development of Islamic Money Markets
March 2008
Source: Compiled by the author from http://www.ifsb.org. Access date: 14 June 2011
central banks manage liquidity in the sukuk market, and with the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) to develop a Tahawwut (Hedging)
Master Agreement (Mahlknecht, 2009). In October 2008, IIFM marked a
milestone with the launch of the first-ever universal Master Agreement in Islamic
finance: the Master Agreement for Treasury Placement (MATP). The MATP,
which is to cater for global commodity murabahah trades, is a perfect example
of how standardisation can take place (IIFM, 2009).
Islamic International Rating Agency (IIRA): The IIRA aims to assist in the
development of regional financial markets by providing an assessment of the risk
profiles of entities and instruments that can be used for investment decisions. The
organisation has a board of directors and Shari’ah boards as well as an independent
rating committee. The IIRA also provides a unique service for rating the quality
of the Shari’ah compliance of a financial institution (Askari et al., 2009).
International Islamic Liquidity Management Corporation (IILM):
Finally, October 2010 saw the signing and launch of the IILM, the latest transna-
tional body to serve the global Islamic finance industry. The ultimate aim of the
IILM is to enhance international integration of the Islamic money market and
capital markets and to better equip them to face any liquidity crises.
CONCLUSION
This chapter provided an overview of Islamic financial principles. The devel-
opment of IBF was introduced and the market size was explored. Additionally,
major differences between conventional and Islamic banking were also presented.
Islamic banks, similar to their conventional counterparts, act as financial interme-
diaries; they transform the characteristics of the financial inflows they capture, as

--- Página 56 ---
40
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
part of their funding strategies, into Shari’ah-compliant placement, financing and
investment instruments. However, asset classes managed by IFIs may differ from
those of conventional banks, not so much in their economic substance, but more
in their financial form (Iqbal and Mirakhor, 2007).
Financial contracts in Islamic finance are not archetypal. They have special
relationships between the contracting parties, which sometimes change during the
different stages of the contract. The origin, intensity and spread of risks are unique
for IFIs, mainly because of the participatory risk relationship by the investor.
It should be noted that using the PLS principle to reward depositors is a unique
feature of Islamic banks. This feature, along with the different modes of financing
and the Shari’ah-compliant set of business activities, changes the nature of risks
that Islamic banks face. Hence, risk management for Islamic banks is a far more
complex issue as compared to that of conventional banking.

--- Página 57 ---
CHAPTER3
Risk Management
in Islamic Banks
A Theoretical Perspective
The fact that people are full of greed, fear, or folly is predictable.
The sequence is not predictable.
—Warren Buffett
I
t has been argued by proponents of Islamic finance that most Islamic bank-
ing products are less risky than conventional banking products because they
are based on real assets. These advocates strongly argue that Islamic banks are
recession-proof and are more resilient to economic shocks than their conventional
peers. On the other hand, opponents of Islamic finance believe that most of the
conventional risks are also present in Islamic banking in addition to further risks
that are quite specific to the Islamic structure. They strongly argue that Islamic
banking is more risky and less developed than the Western Wall Street banking
model. Who is right? Where does the truth reside?
These are challenging questions, the answer to which requires careful exam-
ination of the associated risks within Islamic finance in general as well as other
areas of Islamic operations and the macro environment that could have an impact
on the risk culture, risk tolerance and risk management of Islamic banks. A review
of the existing literature does not provide a clear answer to these grey areas in
Islamic banking, as the existing body of knowledge is still limited.
Risk management is at the heart of banks’ financial intermediation process,
and has assumed the utmost importance amid the recession, which has witnessed
the worst complexity and volatility in financial markets in living memory. Basel II
and widespread write-downs have highlighted the importance of sufficient capital
adequacy and, more importantly, set a framework for improving the overall risk
management architecture in banks. Appropriate risk management has become a
differentiating factor in building competitive advantages for financial institutions.
41

--- Página 58 ---
42
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Today, regulators, creditors and rating agencies place great emphasis on risk
management frameworks and corporate governance, particularly in fast-growing
emerging markets where such factors tend to attract lower scores than in more
mature economic and business environments.
Islamic financial institutions (IFIs) are no exception. Similarly to conventional
banks, they face many challenges in adequately defining, identifying, measur-
ing, selecting, pricing and mitigating risks across business lines and asset classes.
Unfortunately, risk management is an ignored area of research in Islamic finance.
Therefore, a number of challenges are still being confronted in this field. These
challenges stem from different sources. First, a number of risk management tech-
niques are not available to IFIs due to Shari’ah-compliance requirements. Islamic
alternatives to several hedging and risk mitigation techniques that are widely used
in conventional banking have not yet been explored. Second, there are a number
of Shari’ah positions which affect risk management processes directly. Some of
these are lack of effective means to deal with wilful default, prohibition of sale
of debt, prohibition of currency forwards and futures, among others. Third, lack
of standardisation of Islamic financial contracts is also an important source of the
challenges in this regard.
The majority of the risks faced by conventional financial institutions (such
as credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, macroeconomic risk,
etc.) are also faced by Islamic banks. However, the magnitude of some of these
risks is different for Islamic banks due to their unique business model. In addi-
tion, IFIs face further risks that stem from the different characteristics of assets
and liabilities, balance sheet structure and compliance with Shari’ah principles.
Furthermore, the profit-sharing feature of Islamic banking introduces some addi-
tional risks. For example, paying the investment depositors a share of the bank’s
profits introduces withdrawal risk, fiduciary risk and displaced commercial risk.
In addition, the various Islamic modes of finance have their own unique risk char-
acteristics. Thus, the nature of some risks that IFIs face is different from those of
their conventional counterparts.
In Islamic finance, the importance of risk management is clearly acknowl-
edged. While conventional finance, with its roots in neo-classical economic theory,
has developed instruments to identify and trade risks, in Islam risk cannot be sold
in any matter. Risk management in Islamic finance is therefore built on the foun-
dation that risk must be shared between parties as opposed to being assumed by
one party or the other.
Realising the significance of risk management, the Islamic Finance Services
Board (IFSB) issued a comprehensive standards document on risk management in
December 2005: IFSB-1: Guiding Principles of Risk Management for Institutions

--- Página 59 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
43
(other than Insurance Institutions) Offering only Islamic Financial Services (IFS).
This complements the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) stan-
dards to address the specificity of Islamic products. Islamic banks’ balance sheet
structures indicate that there is a great diversity of classifications on both the asset
and liability sides. Such variety affects the ease of comparison both between dif-
fering Islamic institutions and between Islamic institutions and their conventional
peers, making it difficult to apply just one appropriate risk management approach.
Therefore, the IFSB has prudently adopted a principles-based approach. The IFSB
standard lists 15 guiding principles for risk management in IFIs. There is a general
requirement followed by requirements covering credit, equity investment, market,
liquidity, rate-of-return and operational risks (IFSB, 2005a). Overall, the main dif-
ferences between these principles and those appropriate for a conventional bank
relate to five key areas:
(i) The range of asset classes found in Islamic banks;
(ii) The relatively weak position of investment account holders (IAHs);
(iii) The importance of the Shari’ah supervisory board and the bank’s ability to
provide the board with adequate information as well as to abide by its rulings;
(iv) Rate-of-return risk; and
(v) New operational risks.
Notwithstanding the IFSB’s endeavour to provide the Islamic banking indus-
try with a set of guidelines toward best-practice risk management, a number of
additional risk issues at IFIs deserve further examination as detailed in this chapter.
The aim of this chapter is to define what differentiates IFIs in terms of their
risk profiles, and to highlight the potential implications that such differences may
make to IFIs’ financial strength and risk identification, management and mitiga-
tion. Thus, this chapter maps the risk structure in IFIs but also discusses the risk
management strategies developed and utilised by IFIs.
This chapter attempts to answer the long-debated question of whether Islamic
banking is less or more risky than conventional banking. In doing so it reviews
the existing literature on risks in Islamic banking with reference to risks in con-
ventional banking. The theoretical literature review is intermingled within the
discussion about each risk type. It commences by researching risks that are com-
mon to both Islamic and conventional banks, and asserts that Islamic banks face
similar risks to different degrees. It then explores other risk areas which are unique
to Islamic banks due to their unique business model and contracts. Furthermore,
specific issues related to risk management and mitigation in Islamic banking are
also discussed. The last section draws some conclusions.

--- Página 60 ---
44
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
RISK MANAGEMENT: BASIC CONCEPTS
AND TECHNIQUES
What is Risk Management?
Risk is generally the possibility of an unplanned event that, if allowed to develop,
could adversely affect all or part of the institution’s business, leading to loss of rev-
enue, failure to meet key strategic goals or objectives, reduced company reputation
or missed opportunities to increase or improve any of these. Risk can be defined
as the variability or volatility of unexpected outcomes. It is usually measured by
the standard deviation of historic outcomes (Das, 2006).
Risk management is the term applied to the process adopted by the business
for identifying, analysing, evaluating, treating, monitoring and communicating
risks associated with all the activities of the business in a way that will enable the
institution to minimise its losses, maximise opportunities and achieve its stated
strategic objectives (Jorion and Khoury, 1996). The risk management process is
a comprehensive system that includes creating an appropriate risk management
environment; maintaining an efficient risk measurement, mitigation and monitor-
ing process; and establishing an adequate internal control arrangement (Khan and
Ahmed, 2001).
Risk management is a continuous and vigilant process; it is an activity more
than an action. The goal of an effective risk management system is not only to
avoid losses, but also to ensure that the bank achieves its targeted financial results
with a high degree of reliability and consistency. Taking risks is an integral part
of any financial business. Risk arises when there is a possibility of more than
one outcome and the ultimate outcome is unknown (Schroeck, 2002). Though all
businesses face uncertainty, financial institutions face some special kinds of risks,
given their nature of activities.
Risk management, in a broad sense, is not only a discipline for specialised
professionals, but permeates every activity of a financial institution. It starts with
a clear definition of the chosen risk tolerance for the bank at all levels of the
organisation, and includes management actions aimed at ensuring that its risk
profile remains within the agreed risk tolerance. In addition, it is not limited to
a narrow consideration of the risks undertaken by the institution, but evaluates
these in the context of the external environment and how this can affect the
bank The recent financial crisis, with the near collapse of the financial system in
September–October 2008, provides a striking example of what can happen when
risk is poorly managed, as is shown in Chapter 5.
Since all financial entities are directly or indirectly interwoven and inter-
linked, they create a complicated web of uncertainties which makes up the mass
of the financial risk. Risk in a banking context arises from any transaction or busi-
ness decision that contains uncertainty related to the result. Because virtually every

--- Página 61 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
45
bank transaction is associated with some level of uncertainty, nearly every trans-
action contributes to the overall risk of a bank (Schroeck, 2002). Risks are part
of financial intermediation; undertaking a business transaction or an investment
decision involves some degree of risk-taking regarding the future performance
or outcome of the activity. The survival and success of a financial organisation
depends on the efficiency with which it can manage its risks. According to Engel
(2010) (Head of Risk Management at the European Islamic Investment Bank and
one of the interviewees), “banks are in the risk business, they got to take risks. Once
money has gone out of the door, the bank has taken a whole array of risks . . . The
most insidious and dangerous risk is zero risk. This arises when a risk manager
always says ‘no’ and comes up with many reasons not to do a deal.”
History of Risk Management
The appreciation of risk was the important building block in the development of
modern financial systems. In the 20th century, the economist Irving Fisher was
the first to appreciate the importance of risk in the functioning of financial mar-
kets (Bessis, 1999). In the 1930s a number of renowned economists, most notably
John Maynard Keynes, saw the importance of risk in the selection of portfolios.
However, in their analysis the role of risk was largely limited to affecting expected
gains and speculative and hedging activities. This strain of analysis led to results
covering the relationship of futures prices and expected spot prices, the impact
of risk on assessing the value of future streams of income, and eventually to the
development of the portfolio theory (Askari et al., 2009).
However, risk management as an independent topic is a fairly new field;
although financial institutions have been always exposed to risks, the formal study
of managing risk started in the second half of the last century. Markowitz’s (1959)
decisive paper initiated the risk-return trade-off discussion; it first indicated that
portfolio selection was a problem of maximising expected return and minimising
risks. A higher-than-expected return from a portfolio (measured by the mean)
can result only from taking more risks. Thus, the problem for investors was to
find the optimal risk–return combination. Markowitz’s analysis also points out
the systematic and unsystematic components of risk. While the unsystematic
component, known as idiosyncratic risk, can be mitigated by diversification of
assets, the systematic component has to be borne by the investor. Markowitz’s
approach, however, faces operational problems when a large number of assets are
involved (Khan and Ahmed, 2001).
Sharpe’s Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) introduced the concepts of
systematic and residual risks in 1964 (Stremme, 2005). Advances in this model
include Single-Factor Models of Risk that estimate the beta of an asset. While
residual (firm-specific) risk can be diversified, beta measures the sensitivity of the
portfolio to business cycles (an aggregate index). The dependence of CAPM on

--- Página 62 ---
46
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
a single index to explain the risks inherent in assets is too simplistic. Arbitrage
Pricing Theory proposed by Ross in 1976 suggests that multiple factors affect
the expected return of an asset. The implication of the Multiple Factor Model
is that the total risk is the sum of the various factor-related risks and residual
risk. According to Stremme (2005), the CAPM paved the way for more advanced
capital-structuring models like the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), the
Modigliani and Miller Theorem on optimal capital structure in 1959 and 1963,
the Myers’ Trade-off Theory (1977), the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing,
the Efficient Market Hypothesis and the renowned Pecking Order Theory, which
was granted the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2001.
Modern risk management frameworks and processes have developed over the
past three decades. Traditionally, risk management was engrained in management
practices. Like Islamic finance, risk management has come a long way during its
short history. “If you mentioned the title Risk Manager 25 years ago, people would
laugh at you . . . Bankers only realised credit risk, all other risks including corpo-
rate governance, liquidity, money laundering, and even market risk were merely
responsibilities of senior management and board members” says Lowe (2010),
Head of Risk Management at Qatar Islamic Bank (UK) and one of the inter-
viewees for this research. It was only when financial products started becoming
complicated that risk management evolved as an independent integrated frame-
work. The development of derivatives, pricing models, portfolios and sophisticated
international financial trading required independent risk management teams and
advanced models to identify, measure, monitor and control different risks.
It was in the mid-1990s, when JP Morgan started developing Value at Risk
(VaR) models, that risk management began gaining prominence among banking
executives. Gradually risk management started shifting to the hands of math-
ematicians and physicists, who developed sophisticated models that tempted
management to take decisions based on statistical modelling rather than credit
fundamentals. During the past two decades, there has been an unprecedented
development in the mathematical and quantitative treatment of financial variables
with critical implications for banks. An important impact of this development has
been decomposing risk through financial engineering and product development,
which has made risk management a serious scientific process. These innovations
have led to significant cost reductions for most financial institutions. However,
at the same time, additional uncertainties have been created, which could have
serious consequences for risk management (IFSB, 2007). For example, executives
at UBS and Merrill Lynch in some instances took decisions that relied on models
that they did not fully understand. However, this wave is coming to an end
and there will be a shift in power again to the basics, together with the help of
mathematical models. It is a fact, however, that realising a fine balance remains a
key challenge.

--- Página 63 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
47
Systemic Importance of Risk Management
Over the last few decades, risk management has gained prominence in the global
banking industry. The significant changes to the banking business have changed
the nature of risks faced by financial institutions. Whereas two decades ago a finan-
cial institution was primarily faced with credit and market risk only, today’s finan-
cial institution is exposed to a whole array of new risks, and this list is expanding.
Risk management is today at the heart of banks’ financial intermediation process,
and plays a major role in determining a bank’s rating and financial strength.
It should be noted that current risks can become tomorrow’s potential losses
unless they are managed efficiently. However, although most risks cannot be elim-
inated, they can be managed. The element of risk also brings opportunities, and to
gain from these opportunities, the risk should be managed properly. For a bank,
some of the risks can turn into losses and may even cause liquidation. A risk is
in many cases hidden before it is visible as a loss. Risk and return are usually
correlated: the higher the risk, the higher the return. A bank with a conserva-
tive approach may not fully utilise its funds and thus have a higher cost of capi-
tal, whereas a bank with high-risk appetite can over-lend, thereby increasing the
chances of a failure. Currently, pricing of loans is largely based on risk. A risky
loan which is under-priced may prove to be a drag on profitability, whereas a sound
loan which is over-priced may deter good customers.
In the financial world, therefore, risk and return are two sides of the same
coin. It is easy to lend and to obtain attractive returns from risky borrowers. The
price to pay is a risk that is higher than the prudent bank’s risk. The prudent bank
limits risk, and therefore both future losses and expected revenues, by restrict-
ing business volume and screening out risky borrowers. The prudent bank avoids
losses but it might suffer from lower market share and lower revenues. However,
after a while, the risk-taker might find that higher losses materialise and obtain an
end performance lower than that of the prudent lender. Who performs best? Unless
some measure of risk is assigned to income, it is impossible to compare policies
driven by different risk appetites. Comparing performances without risk adjust-
ment is akin to comparing apples and oranges. The rationale of risk adjustment
is in making comparable different performances attached to different risk levels
(PwC, 2008).
Sundararajan (2007) provides four reasons for the importance of the appli-
cation of modern approaches to risk measurement and management in Islamic
banking:
(i) To properly recognise the unique mix of risks in Islamic finance contracts;
(ii) To ensure proper pricing of Islamic finance facilities, including returns to
IAHs;

--- Página 64 ---
48
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
(iii) To manage and control various types of risks; and
(iv) To ensure adequacy of capital and its effective allocation, according to the
risk profile of the Islamic bank.
It is important to state that risk management is one of the critical factors in
providing better returns to shareholders, as it is an important source of value cre-
ation in banks (Schroeck, 2002). Risk management is also a necessity for stability
of the overall financial system.
Risk Management Versus Risk Measurement
There is a difference between risk measurement and risk management. While risk
measurement deals with quantification of risk exposures, risk management refers
to “the overall process that a financial institution follows to define a business strat-
egy, to identify the risks to which it is exposed, to quantify those risks, and to
understand and control the nature of risks it faces” (Khan and Ahmed, 2001).
As the definition identifies, risk management is strictly linked to risk measurement;
it is difficult to manage risk if the risk measurements are not robust (McKenzie,
2007).
Risk Management Framework
There are several risk management structures available worldwide, as has been
explained in different studies; however, the most commonly used framework in
today’s modern world is based on four key domains: (i) risk culture and gover-
nance, (ii) risk management, (iii) risk measurement, and (iv) infrastructure and
information systems (EIIB, 2010b).
These four pillars of risk management should not be considered in isolation.
Rather, the dynamic interaction between them is at the core of risk management,
as illustrated in Figure 3.1. They are discussed in detail in the following sections.
Risk culture and governance
A strong risk culture and tone from the top
management are vital for effective risk management. The board of directors and
the executive committee are responsible for choosing the appropriate level of
risk appetite for the bank and for ensuring that its risk profile remains within the
bank’s risk tolerance. The board of directors is key to providing effective checks
and balances to a bank’s management and ensuring that compensation policies
are designed to avoid excessive risk-taking (McKenzie, 2007). At the same time,
concrete support from senior management and the board is essential to ensuring
that the risk function has the necessary authority, is appropriately staffed, and has
the required infrastructure to measure and analyse risk in a timely manner.

--- Página 65 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
49
Risk Culture & Governance
Risk Management
Risk Measurement
Risk Management
Framework
Infrastructure & Information
Systems
FIGURE 3.1
Risk management framework
As discussed in the available body of knowledge, culture, strategy and com-
petitive position all influence risk appetite. Different banks will have different
tolerances for different risks. A bank’s risk appetite for credit risk in consumer
lending might be quite different from its appetite for market risk in its investment
banking operation. A major benefit of defining risk appetite is that it helps to ensure
that the risk culture is made explicit (PwC, 2008).
The headwind that chief risk officers and risk management staff typically
face, in particular in boom times, was effectively summarised by the Bank for
International Settlements (BIS) in its 79th Annual Report. The BIS (2009) noted:
“Without support from top management, it did not matter much what the chief risk
officer said or to whom he or she said it. The structural problem was compounded
by the behavioural response to a risk officer whose job is to tell people to limit
or stop what they are doing. If what they are doing is profitable, it is going to be
difficult to get managers and directors to listen.”
Engel (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, adds, “I keep remind-
ing everyone at my bank to ‘Think Capital, Think Risk’; everybody has got to
engage in the risk culture if you want to implement a successful risk management
framework.”
Risk management
Once the risk tolerance for the financial institution has been
agreed, this has to be translated into a coherent risk limitation system for different
types of risks as well as for the different business activities of the bank. In addition,
risk mitigation will be needed to ensure that the risk profile of specific portfo-
lios or activities does not exceed the allocated limit – hence the link between risk

--- Página 66 ---
50
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Ways to Conduct Risk Management
Instruments
Approaches/Actions
Eliminate/Avoid
Hedge/Sell
Diversify
Insure
Set Policy
Hold Capital
Transfer
Absorb/Manage
FIGURE 3.2
Ways to conduct risk management
Source: Schroeck (2002:79). © John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reproduced with permission
governance and risk management. Figure 3.2 illustrates that a sound risk manage-
ment process requires appropriate linkage between approaches and actions that
enable eliminating, transferring or managing risk, and instruments that facilitate
the hedging and diversifying of those risks that the organisation cannot manage.
Risk measurement
Risk cannot be managed without being measured. The
crisis has made apparent that further work is required to enable banks to measure
their risks with some degree of accuracy, particularly in relation to complex finan-
cial instruments, as well as to capture the interrelationship across different types
of risk. In measuring and managing risk, the adoption of multiple risk measures is
necessary to prevent important dimensions of risk being overlooked. For example,
statistical measures, such as VaR, need to be complemented by stress-testing
analysis. The results of models can be a valuable input into the decision-making
process of a bank, but they cannot replace judgement. Lowe (2010) asserts that
models and formulas should support a sound fundamental analysis, but never
replace it.

--- Página 67 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
51
Infrastructure and information systems
A robust risk infrastructure and
good data quality are the essential elements for a bank to be able to measure in
an accurate and timely manner the risks that it is taking. It is also a key element
for effective risk reporting, which, as discussed above, is essential for the board
of directors and the executives to make informed decisions (EIIB, 2010b). So,
the risk infrastructure and information systems pillar links to risk culture and
governance. Consequently, with this process the circle is closed.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND THE CREDIT CRUNCH
Since 2008, the financial crisis has uncovered significant deficiencies in the way
in which financial institutions manage risk. It has become clear that risk man-
agement has lacked the necessary authority to exert an appropriate influence over
profit centres. The tools used to manage risk have also been found deficient, from
stress-testing and scenario analysis to the reliance on external rating agencies.
While it is too early to count the ultimate survivors, or reach conclusions about
whether (or to what extent) risk management may have contributed to some banks’
ability to endure stress, it is noted that effective or ineffective risk management is
often cited as the root of success or failure. However, as the dust starts to settle
from the financial crisis, a consensus around what needs to be fixed is begining to
form. Consequently, many Western institutions are subjecting their risk manage-
ment policies and processes to a significant overhaul, and are investigating a wide
range of tools and techniques to give them a better overall picture of risk.
While efforts to upgrade risk management techniques are commendable, there
is a more fundamental point to address around the risk culture of the organisation.
It has become apparent that, during the boom, the concerns of risk managers were
all too often swept aside in the quest for profit and competitive advantage. As the
banking industry seeks to rebuild itself, the balance of power needs to shift back
toward risk management. Armed with appropriate authority, clear visibility into
lines of business, and the ear of senior executives, risk management will become
an integral part of any future recovery (Economist Intelligence Unit, 2009).
CLASSIFICATION OF RISKS
There are several ways in which risks are classified. One way is to distinguish
between business risk and financial risks. Business risk arises from the nature of
a firm’s business; it relates to factors affecting the product market. Financial risk
arises from possible losses in financial markets due to movements in financial
variables (Jorion and Khoury, 1996).

--- Página 68 ---
52
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Khan and Ahmed (2001) present another way of decomposing risk between
systematic and unsystematic components. While systematic risk is associated with
the overall market or the economy, unsystematic risk is linked to a specific asset or
firm. Asset-specific unsystematic risk can be mitigated in a large diversified port-
folio, but systematic risk is non-diversifiable. Parts of systematic risk, however,
can be reduced through risk mitigation and transferring techniques.
While Santomero (1997) classifies risks faced by financial institutions into
three types (risks that can be eliminated, risks that can be transferred to others,
and risks that can be managed by the institution), financial intermediaries would
avoid certain risks by implementing simple business practices and not taking up
activities that impose risks upon them. Risk avoidance techniques would include
the standardisation of all business-related activities and processes, construction
of diversified portfolios, and implementation of an incentive-compatible scheme
with accountability of actions. Some risks that banks face can be reduced or elim-
inated by transferring or selling these in well-defined markets. Risk-transferring
techniques include use of derivatives for hedging, selling or buying of financial
claims; changing borrowing terms, etc. Iqbal and Llewellyn (2002) differentiate
between two types of risk: ‘uncontrollable risk’ or chance, over which the bank,
as the decision maker, has no control whatsoever; and ‘controllable’ or responsive
risk, which can be controlled and affected by the bank.
Nonetheless, as previously discussed, most risks cannot be eliminated or
transferred and must be absorbed by the financial institution, either due to the
complexity of the risk and difficulty in separating it from the asset, or because
the risk is accepted by the financial institutions as being central to their business.
These risks are accepted because banks specialise in dealing with them and get
rewarded accordingly.
Akkizidis and Khandelwal (2007) group risks into three major categories:
financial, business and operational risks. Financial risk will generally include
credit, market and liquidity risks. Business risk is a combination of management
risk and strategic risk. Operational risk can arise due to people, process and
systems, as well as several other factors. Some of the other relevant risks for the
financial industry can be commodity risk, country and political risk, reputational
risk, legal risk, concentration risk, regulatory risk and systemic risk related to
interconnected unfavourable events across the industry.
Greuning and Iqbal (2008) classify risks into four major categories as depicted
by Table 3.1. Financial risks are subject to complex interdependencies that may
significantly increase a bank’s overall risk profile. For example, a bank engaged
in foreign currency business is normally exposed to currency risk, but it is also
exposed to credit, liquidity and re-pricing risks if it carries open positions or mis-
matches in its forward book. Operational risks are related to a bank’s organisa-
tion and functioning, including technologies, compliance with bank policies and

--- Página 69 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
53
TABLE 3.1
Banking risk exposures
Financial Risks
Operational Risks
Business Risks
Event Risks
Balance sheet structure
Internal fraud
Macro policy
Political
Income statement
structure and
profitability
External fraud
Financial
infrastructure
Contagion
Capital adequacy
Employment practices
and workplace safety
Legal infrastructure
Banking
crisis
Credit
Clients, products and
business services
Legal liability
Other exog-
enous risks
Liquidity
Damage to physical
assets
Regulatory
compliance
Market
Business disruption and
system failures
(technology risk)
Reputational and
fiduciary
Interest rate
Execution, delivery and
process management
Country risks
Source: Based on data from Greuning and Iqbal (2008:65)
procedures, and measures against mismanagement and fraud. Business risks are
associated with a bank’s business environment, including macroeconomic and pol-
icy concerns, legal and regulatory factors, and the financial sector’s infrastructure,
such as payment systems and the auditing profession. Event risks include all types
of exogenous risks that, if they were to materialise, would jeopardise a bank’s
operations or undermine its financial condition.
Iqbal and Mirakhor (2007) divide the risk profile of a financial institution
into four groups: financial, business, treasury and governance risks. They define
financial risk as the exposures that result in a direct financial loss to the assets
or the liabilities of a bank, including credit, market and equity risks. Business
risks are associated with a bank’s business environment, including macroeconomic
and policy concerns, legal and regulatory factors, and the overall banking sec-
tor infrastructure such as payment systems and the auditing profession. Treasury
risks include risks arising from the management of the financial resources of the
financial institution in terms of cash management, equity management, liquidity
management, and asset and liability management (ALM). Finally, governance risk
refers to the risk arising from a failure in governance of the institution, from neg-
ligence in conducting business and meeting contractual obligations, and from a
weak internal and external institutional environment, including legal risk, whereby
a bank is unable to enforce its contracts.

--- Página 70 ---
54
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
It is important to note another dimension of risk – the interaction and mutation
of risks. Usually risks combine with each other, creating new risks. For example,
the risk on investments consists of credit risk and market risk, as well as an ele-
ment of operational risk. A change in the value of the investment is a market risk,
downgrading of the investment by a rating agency will involve credit risk, whereas
an error in documenting the guarantees will be classified as operational risk. Simi-
larly, the inability to manage market risk can be considered operational risk rather
than pure market risk. To what extent this needs to be allocated using market
risk methodology and operational risk methodology is complicated to determine.
When allocating capital to manage risks, this merging of risks can cause duplicate
allocations and thus increase the capital allocation (Akkizidis and Khandelwal,
2007). This is a grey area of risk management requiring further probing.
For the purpose of this research, risks will be classified into two main cat-
egories: risks which Islamic banks have in common with traditional banks and
risks which are unique to Islamic banks due to their compliance with Shari’ah.
Although Islamic banks share many of the same types of risk as their conventional
counterparts, they find these risks complex and difficult to mitigate for various rea-
sons. First, unlike conventional banks, given trading-based instruments and equity
financing, there are significant market risks along with credit risk in the banking
book of Islamic banks. Second, risks intermingle and change from one type to
another at different stages of a transaction. For example, during the transaction
period of a salam contract, the bank is exposed to credit risk, and at the conclusion
of the contract it is exposed to commodity price risk. Third, Islamic banks are con-
strained in using some of the risk mitigation instruments that their conventional
counterparts use, as these are not yet generally allowed under Shari’ah princi-
ples. Finally, the profit-and-loss-sharing (PLS) modes in Islamic banks change
the nature of the risks these institutions face.
RISKS COMMON TO BOTH ISLAMIC
AND CONVENTIONAL BANKS
The majority of the risks faced by conventional financial institutions such as credit
risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, etc. are also faced by the IFIs.
However, the magnitude of some of these risks is different for Islamic banks due
to their unique business model and compliance with the Shari’ah principles. Thus,
the nature of some risks that IFIs face is different from those of their conven-
tional counterparts. Special attention must be paid to the contractual role of Islamic
banks because the relationship between parties during the lifetime of the contract
gives Islamic finance a different orientation toward risk. Even when risk manage-
ment techniques in conventional finance are applicable to Islamic products, the

--- Página 71 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
55
implementation of risk management, especially in hedging market, price, foreign
exchange (FX) and commodity risks, is problematic.
The following sections present an introduction to particular risk areas.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is generally defined as the risk of loss arising from default or failure
to perform (EIIB, 2010b). It is also referred to as ‘default risk’, which is one of
the earliest recognised risks in the financial industry. Traditionally, a large part of
a bank’s profit came from the lending business, and the majority of bank losses
were also related to this aspect of risk management; hence the focus was primarily
on credit risk.
Banks have always monitored and mitigated credit risk actively, through a
number of mechanisms such as country limits, counterparty limits, large expo-
sure limits, diversification, covenants, delegations, internal and external ratings,
watch lists, etc. However, credit risk assessment remains judgement-based because
it cannot be precisely calculated ahead of time since the likelihood of default
is highly uncertain and thus difficult to predict accurately. Credit applications,
referred to as credit scoring models, play an important role in combining quali-
tative and quantitative risk aspects of clients including, but not limited to, operat-
ing experience, management expertise, asset quality, leverage and liquidity ratios,
earnings, debt service, etc. (Akkizidis and Khandelwal, 2007).
Credit risk in Islamic banks
The IFSB Principles of Credit Risk can help to
develop an understanding of the nature of credit risks in Islamic banks, as in
Box 3.1.
BOX 3.1: IFSB PRINCIPLES OF CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT
Principle 2.1:
IIFS shall have in place a strategy for financing, using
various instruments in compliance with Shar¯ı’ah, whereby it recog-
nises the potential credit exposures that may arise at different stages
of the various financing agreements.
Principle 2.2:
IIFS shall carry out a due diligence review in respect
of counterparties prior to deciding on the choice of an appropriate
Islamic financing instrument.
Principle 2.3:
IIFS shall have in place appropriate methodologies for
measuring and reporting the credit risk exposures arising under
each Islamic financing instrument.
(Continued)

--- Página 72 ---
56
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Principle 2.4:
IIFS shall have in place Shar¯ı’ah-compliant credit
risk mitigating techniques appropriate for each Islamic financing
instrument.
Source: Based on data from IFSB (2005a)
The unique characteristics of the financial instruments offered by Islamic
banks result in the following special credit risks:
(i) First, access to collateral and foreclosure are difficult. One of the five key
pillars of modern Islamic finance is the obligation to back any transaction
by a tangible, identifiable, underlying asset. This means that IFIs – at least
in theory – back their transactions with collateral. Consequently, collateral
coverage is usually higher for IFIs than for conventional banks. In short, IFIs
naturally have a high level of collateralisation on their credit portfolios, and
thus are in a position to somewhat reduce their economic, if not regulatory,
exposures at default.
Contrary to conventional banks, whose customers are not always obliged
to disclose the purpose of their borrowings, Islamic banks finance the acquisi-
tion of identifiable assets of which they have legal ownership, in most cases
until maturity and final repayment. This is notably the case for ijarah and
diminishing musharakah operations, in which the bank acquires the asset and
leases it to the customer, with ownership transfer taking place only at matu-
rity. The bank, as the legal owner of the asset, is therefore in a favourable
position to foreclose on this asset (in the case of a default), and sell it on a
secondary market (Moody’s, 2008a).
In practice, however, collateral foreclosure can be much more difficult,
especially for residential real estate. Given the take-off in residential real
estate lending in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, this question
of foreclosure is set to become critical. Although an Islamic bank is in theory
in a position to evict a customer from a property and resell it in the case of a
default on the loan backed by the property, this would be unlikely to happen
in practice, owing to the bank’s ‘social responsibility’. According to Chowd-
hury (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, there are, however,
instances when such a decision may be taken by a bank and authorised by its
Shari’ah board – notably when specific conditions were set out and agreed
upon before the conclusion of the transaction. In such cases, foreclosure may
be easier than for conventional banks, as the property belongs to the Islamic

--- Página 73 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
57
bank. As a matter of fact, this type of structuring is sometimes used by con-
ventional banks, as it is a strong way of reducing the problem of foreclosure.
In addition, there are other problems with posting collaterals as securi-
ties, especially in developing countries, where most Islamic banks operate,
or in declining times like the recent recession. Typical problems include
illiquidity of the collateral or inability of the bank to sell it, difficulties in
determining the fair market value on a periodic basis, and legal obstacles in
taking possession of the collateral. Diminishing musharakah contracts are
increasingly used as a financing mechanism for Shari’ah-compliant home
purchase, particularly in Dubai (Moody’s, 2008b).
However, when the financing is based on other Shari’ah-compliant
schemes where the property is not registered in the bank’s name, the IFI will
find itself in the same position as its conventional peers.
(ii) Murabahah is the most predominantly used Islamic financial contract. Based
on the contract’s similarity in risk characteristics with those of interest-based
contracts, murabahah is approved as an acceptable mode of finance in a
number of regulatory jurisdictions. However, such a standardised contract
may not be acceptable to all fiqh scholars. Moreover, as the contract stands
at present, there is a lack of complete uniformity in fiqh viewpoints. The
different views among scholars can be a source of counterparty risk as a
result of the atmosphere of ineffective litigation (Khan and Ahmed, 2001).
The main point in this regard stems from the fact that financial murabahah
is a contemporary contract which has been designed by combining a number
of different contracts. There is a complete consensus among all fiqh scholars
that this new contract has been approved as a form of deferred trading.
The condition of its validity is based on the fact that the bank must buy
(become owner) and afterwards transfer the ownership direct to the client.
The order placed by the client is not a sale contract but merely a promise
to buy. According to the OIC Fiqh Academy Resolution, a promise can
be binding on one party only. The OIC Fiqh Academy, AAOIFI and most
Islamic banks treat the promise to buy as binding on the client. Some other
scholars, however, are of the opinion that the promise is not binding on the
client; the client, even after placing an order and paying the commitment
fee, can rescind the contract. The most important counterparty risk specific
to murabahah arises due to the unsettled nature of the contract (Iqbal and
Mirakhor, 2007).
(iii) In the case of mudarabah investments, where the Islamic bank enters into
the mudarabah contract as rab al-mal (principal) with an external mudarib
(agent), the Islamic bank is exposed to an enhanced credit risk on the
amounts advanced to the mudarib in addition to the typical principal–agent

--- Página 74 ---
58
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
problems. The nature of the mudarabah contract is such that it does not
give the bank appropriate rights to monitor the mudarib or to participate in
management of the project, which makes it difficult to assess and manage
credit risk. The bank is not in a position to know or decide how the activities
of the mudarib can be monitored accurately, especially if losses are claimed.
This risk is especially present in markets where information asymmetry
is high and transparency in financial disclosure by the mudarib is low
(Greuning and Iqbal, 2008).
(iv) In bay’ al-salam contracts, the bank is exposed to the risk of failure to provide
goods on time, or supply of a different quality of goods from that contractu-
ally specified. Such failures could result in a delay or default in payment, and
hence to financial losses to the Islamic bank. Salam is an agricultural-based
contract and hence the counterparty risks may be due to factors beyond the
normal credit quality of the client. The credit quality of the client may be very
good but the supply may not come as contractually agreed due to natural
calamities. Since agriculture is exposed to catastrophic risks, the counter-
party risks are expected to be above-average in bay’ al-salam (Iqbal and
Mirakhor, 2007).
(v) The counterparty risks under istisna’a contracts are similar to the risks
faced by Islamic banks under bay’ al-salam contracts. However, the object
of istisna’a is more within the control of the counterparty and less exposed
to natural calamities as compared to the object of salam. Therefore, it can
be expected that the counterparty risk of the sub-contractor of istisna’a,
although fairly high, is less severe than that of the salam (Akkizidis
and Khandelwal, 2007). In addition, under the istisna’a agreement IFIs
are deemed to remain the beneficial owners of financed assets until the
borrower pays back the final instalment. In the case where the borrower
defaults before maturity, the IFI is entitled to dispose of the financed assets,
which are generally illiquid because they are specific to the nature of the
plant, the industry or the enterprise to which the IFI’s funds were initially
allocated. In the case of default, the IFI – more so than any conventional
bank – becomes a merchant, acting in the field of commerce rather than in
that of pure financial intermediation. This puts additional pressure on IFIs
to equip themselves with the correct technical and professional expertise for
both credit assessment and the management of underlying asset valuation,
trading and liquidity, should loan foreclosure and collateral realisation occur
(Mahlknecht, 2009).
(vi) Credit risk management for Islamic banks is further complicated by addi-
tional externalities. For example, in the case of default by the counterparty,
Islamic banks are prohibited from charging any accrued interest or imposing
any penalty, except in the case of deliberate procrastination (Greuning and

--- Página 75 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
59
Iqbal, 2008). Clients may take advantage by delaying payment, knowing that
the Islamic bank will not charge a penalty or require extra payments. During
the delay, the bank’s capital is stuck in non-productive activity. To mitigate
this risk, Islamic banks tend to charge defaulting customers (who prove to
be negligent) a penalty for late payments, which the banks donate to charity
and do not include in their income. This helps to prevent potential similar
situations.
(vii) Islamic banks have less sophisticated credit risk management practices,
mostly because of the lack of databases and insufficient track record.
Conventional banks use these tools to reduce their credit risk, a luxury not
yet available to Islamic banks. For example, the calculation of probability
of default (PD), loss given default (LGD), expected losses (EL), exposure
at default (EAD) and credit VaR do not generally exist in Islamic banking.
There are endeavours by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s to develop such
models for Islamic banks, or to adjust some of the existing models like
CreditEdge, RiskCalc and Risk Tracker to accommodate Islamic banking.
These models are still work in progress and are faced by huge difficulties
stemming from the fact that there is limited systematic data available in the
Islamic banking world to date.
Concentration Risk
Islamic banks tend to have a concentration base of assets and/or deposits;
they face high concentration by name and sector, as well as high geographical
concentration. The limited scope of eligible asset classes for IFIs increases
concentration in investment portfolios, which tends to be mitigated by a lower
appetite for speculative transactions. Since Islam forbids gharar and speculation,
IFIs are naturally crowded out from the high-risk/high-return leveraged and/or
structured investment asset classes. As such instruments tend to be, in one form or
another, based either on interest (riba) or derivatives (not commonly allowed by
Shari’ah supervisory boards, although Islamic ‘equivalents’ are appearing), their
technical eligibility is in most cases difficult to justify. IFIs thus limit the scope
of their investment strategies to ‘plain vanilla’ asset classes such as stocks, sukuk
and real estate, notwithstanding their cash reserves in the form of short-term
international murabahahs for liquidity purposes. A limited range of permissible
asset allocations leads to concentration risks in IFIs’ investment portfolios, by
asset class, sector and usually also by name. This led some IFIs to suffer severe
losses during the recession. For example, IFIs that invested heavily in stock
markets were exposed to swings in equity prices. Moreover, IFIs are usually
significantly exposed to the real estate sector, as it is compliant with Shari’ah
principles. Some Islamic banks in the GCC have significant exposure to this

--- Página 76 ---
60
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
sector (directly or indirectly through collateral or sukuk), which magnifies the
market risk especially during bearish market conditions.
Because most Islamic financial transactions have an underlying asset at their
centre, Islamic banks tend to own more physical assets than conventional banks,
and “what is a better asset than real estate?”, wonders Marx (2010), one of the
interviewees for this research.
There has been a build-up of these assets during a benign period of credit risk
and rising asset values; a time when the market has seen ample liquidity (Moore,
2009). The recent straitened times that impacted on markets around the globe have
still to be felt in many of the countries where Islamic banks operate; Dubai was a
clear example. The particular concentrations seen in Islamic banks and the simi-
larity of many of their operations are causes for concern.
In addition, the immaturity of securitisation in the industry means that this
financial technology has not been widely used to remove such excess concen-
trations from the balance sheet, although 2007 did see the first few transactions
of commercial property loans and residential ijarah mortgages. In particular,
sukuk are scarce and constitute an illiquid market where investors tend to stick
to a buy-and-hold approach rather than move toward more active bond trading
(Moody’s, 2011a).
Moreover, concentration risks arise from the banks’ limited geographic
reach, as most IFIs are domestic players and only a few have material operations
outside their home country. One interesting exception is the Al Baraka Banking
Group, which has a material presence in more than a dozen jurisdictions across
the Muslim world that brings a good amount of de-correlation between the
Group’s sub-portfolios.
Islamic banks also suffer from concentration on the liability side, leading
to poor asset–liability management (ALM), as discussed in the section ‘Asset–
Liability Management’. At present, IFIs rely heavily on maintaining good rela-
tionships with depositors. However, these relationships can be tested during times
of distress or changing market conditions, when depositors tend to change loy-
alties and shift to large financial institutions which they perceive to be safer. By
diversifying their base of depositors, Islamic banks could reduce their exposure
to displacement or withdrawal risks. According to Askari et al. (2009), with the
changing face of banking and the introduction of internet-based banking, achiev-
ing a high degree of geographic diversity on the liabilities side is conceivable and
should be encouraged.
Concentration and potential volatility in the credit quality of portfolios have
made it necessary for IFIs to maintain strong capitalisation despite rapid growth.
This has in turn put pressure on dividend payouts, and sometimes also on share-
holders to inject fresh capital.

--- Página 77 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
61
Market Risk
Market risk is generally defined as the risk of loss arising from changes in market
prices and profit rates, which will result in a change in earnings or fair value of a
financial obligation resulting in a capital gain or loss upon realisation of the asset
(EIIB, 2010d). The losses can be in on and off balance sheet positions arising
from adverse movements in market prices, i.e. fluctuations in yields and profit
rates (rate-of-return risk), foreign exchange rates (FX risk), equity and commodity
prices (price risk). The price volatility of most assets held in investment and trading
portfolios is often significant. Volatility prevails even in mature markets, although
it is much higher in emerging or illiquid markets.
Market risk was recognised in the late 1980s, after the increase in the impor-
tance of stock markets, when banks started investing heavily in securities (Davis,
2009a). Market risk is difficult to measure due to diversified portfolios, since it
will consist of several markets, currencies, indexes and instruments. The larger
the diversification of the portfolio, the more difficult it is to accurately estimate
market risks due to the correlation between risks.
Market risk management
By its very nature, market risk requires constant
management attention and adequate analysis. Although there are several ways to
measure and manage market risks, which vary among banks, most banks have
limits and triggers for portfolios, individual transactions, sectors and even traders.
Banks also use marking to market, stop-loss provisions, gap analysis, back-testing
and stress-testing for the daily risk management of banking and trading books.
Stress-testing is gaining more popularity to help predict expected losses.
Factor sensitivities and VaR can be used for marked-to-market trading. VaR
is the most well-known methodology to quantify and evaluate market risk in a
systematic fashion. It is one of the newer risk management tools that indicates
how much a firm can lose or make with a certain probability in a given time
horizon. VaR summarises financial risk inherent in portfolios into a simple
number. It is the value of potential losses that will not be exceeded in more than
a given fraction of possible events. This fraction, expressed as a percentage, is
called the ‘tolerance level’. For example, stating that VaR is 100 at the tolerance
level of 5% means that the chances that futures losses exceed 100 are equal to
5% (Bessis, 1999). Though VaR is used to measure market risk in general, it
incorporates many other risks like foreign currency, commodities and equities. In
fact, VaR applies to all levels of risk management, including credit risk, although
it is often associated with market risk only (Bessis, 1999). It has many variations
and can be estimated in different ways like the Monte Carlo approach, the
Parametric approach and the Historical approach. However, VaR models possess

--- Página 78 ---
62
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
some latent weaknesses arising from the fact that they are tailor-made models.
As a risk indicator, VaR works best for smaller positions in liquid markets. In the
most recent crisis (like many in the past), the biggest losses occurred when several
firms built up concentrations, sometimes unknown to their managers and often
unknown to each other. Then, when liquidity evaporated, firms were stuck with
big positions or were forced to liquidate at the same time, exacerbating the trend
in falling values. In either case, increases in observed market volatility caused the
VaR attributed to remaining positions to rise. Thus, VaR has also been criticised
for being a pro-cyclical risk measure. The use of other measures to supplement
VaR, such as Expected Shortfall (the average of all the hypothetical losses beyond
daily VaR), can help provide better market risk management (Moody’s, 2009c).
Therefore, data inputs should be carefully assessed before the appropriate model
is applied. In addition, the conventional market is full of complex derivative
products for hedging the positions to manage market risk.
Market risk in Islamic banks
The IFSB Principles of Market Risk Man-
agement, as illustrated in Box 3.2, introduce the risk management strategy for
market risk.
BOX 3.2: IFSB PRINCIPLES OF MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT
Principle 4.1:
IIFS shall have in place an appropriate framework for
market risk management (including reporting) in respect of all
assets held, including those that do not have a ready market and/or
are exposed to high price volatility.
Source: Based on data from IFSB (2005a)
Market risk in Islamic financial markets inherently exists within the lifetime
of Islamic contracts. The management of market risks is made more difficult for
Islamic banks due to the limited number of risk management tools/instruments
available to them. For example, it is difficult for an IFI to use hedging instru-
ments, such as derivatives, as these are generally forbidden. On a positive note,
the prohibition of gharar usually tempers the risk profile of Islamic banks simply
by limiting the size of their trading operations. Market risk for IFIs can be divided
into six categories as follows:
Rate-of-return risk (profit rate risk) The IFSB Principles of Rate-of-Return
Risk Management, as in Box 3.3, introduce the risk management strategy for
rate-of-return risk.

--- Página 79 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
63
BOX 3.3: IFSB PRINCIPLES OF RATE-OF-RETURN RISK
MANAGEMENT
Principle 6.1:
IIFS shall establish a comprehensive risk management
and reporting process to assess the potential impacts of market
factors affecting rates of return on assets in comparison with the
expected rates of return for IAHs.
Principle 6.2:
IIFS shall have in place an appropriate framework for
managing displaced commercial risk, where applicable.
Source: Based on data from IFSB (2005a)
Islamic banks are not exposed to an ‘interest rate risk’, as interest is not
compliant with the Shari’ah. However, they potentially face even more complex
rate-of-return risks and benchmark risks. Lee (2008) explains that Islamic banks
do not operate in a closed economy; if interest rates rise sharply in relation to
mark-up rates, deposits will flow from Islamic banks into conventional banks and
vice versa.
This results from a mismatch between the yield earned on the bank’s assets
and that served on its liabilities. Controlling margin rates is at the heart of IFIs’
ALM. The management of interest rate risk is one of the fundamental tasks of
the ALM committees of conventional banks. Similarly, IFIs face the same issue
of identifying, measuring and controlling the risk exposure stemming from the
expected cash inflows and outflows of assets and liabilities according to their eco-
nomic maturities. Like conventional banks, IFIs have both a portfolio yielding
fixed income over the duration of contracts and a portfolio generating floating
rates of profit.
However, unlike conventional banks, the charge attached to funding costs
is supposed to be a function of asset yields, as per the core principle of
profit-sharing underlying Islamic banking and finance (IBF), which is at the heart
of Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts (PSIAs). Should there be no smoothing
of returns to PSIA holders, those IFIs that resort materially to PSIAs for funding
would in theory be less profitable than conventional banks when the interest-
or profit-rate cycle is at its peak, because when conventional banks face a
predetermined cost of funds, IFIs would on the contrary be in a position to share
more returns with PSIA holders (Thun, 2010).
The opposite scenario would also be true: when the interest- or profit-rate
cycle trends down toward its trough, IFIs would buffer the decline by distributing

--- Página 80 ---
64
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
less profit to PSIA holders, whereas conventional banks would have to absorb the
same cost of funds at a time when net asset yields had shrunk, therefore reducing
more substantially their margins. If PSIA principles are applied, a lower income
on outstanding loans and participations goes hand in hand with lower payments to
depositors and the bank’s solvency is not endangered (Visser, 2009). In practice,
however, the losses of Islamic banks are not shared with PSIA holders and often
a minimum yield on deposits is ‘implicitly’ guaranteed. As a result, the potential
benefits of PLS finance cannot be realised. There is often an implicit promise of
some minimal return on deposits, or a de facto guarantee of non-negative returns
(Turen, 1995).
Another difference between Islamic and conventional banks is their respec-
tive capacity to use derivatives to hedge their loan books against adverse
interest-/profit-rate scenarios. IFIs have a natural preference for short-term expo-
sures or contractual credit terms that would allow for quick re-pricing schemes,
such as ijarah or diminishing musharakah, which typically re-price every quarter,
behaving like floating profit rate loans. These mechanisms make it less necessary
for Islamic banks to resort to (expensive) profit rate swaps for hedging purposes.
Less than a handful of IFIs to date have had access to such hedging instruments
for Shari’ah related reasons and because so far these instruments are still very
scarce, illiquid, based on over-the-counter arrangements, and thus still quite
costly (Askari et al., 2009).
In the longer term, IFIs are expected to be increasingly exposed to project
finance and mortgage lending, two of the most likely and powerful engines for
the future momentum of Gulf banking markets. In both lines of business, an
IFI’s capacity to supply long-term fixed-rate financing would be viewed as a key
competitive advantage. From a balance sheet management perspective, the IFI’s
corresponding capacity to manage the derived profit rate risk would be critical,
particularly under Basel II’s Pillar 2.
In some cases, IFIs can employ nascent Shari’ah-compliant hedging tech-
niques. Dubai Islamic Bank and Deutsche Bank AG have stated that they have
established the first ever Shari’ah-compliant profit rate collar (Ayub, 2007). For
less sophisticated IFIs, the matching of floating and fixed yields can be used as
a natural way to cover these risks. An ijara portfolio – with a floating margin or
re-pricing characteristics – could be used to reduce an IFI’s exposure to margin risk
resulting from the use of PSIAs as a funding source. As IFIs usually benefit from
a large portion of unremunerated deposits, as is the case for Saudi Arabia-based
Al Rajhi Bank, this can also be a good mitigating factor for margin-related risks.
The core opportunity comes from developing products to manage profit rate
risks and FX risks using fixed/floating profit swaps and currency swaps. Profit rate
swaps rely mostly on the double murabahah approach, referred to as the ‘dual
murabahah’ agreement (Marx, 2010). Although straightforward FX contracts are

--- Página 81 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
65
not permissible, there are several alternative solutions, which all have their respec-
tive challenges, such as: back-to-back qard al-hasan, dual commodity murabahah
contracts, waad, arboun and others as discussed under the ‘Risk Mitigation in
Islamic Banking’ section.
Equity investment risk The IFSB Principles, as in Box 3.4, introduce the risk
management strategy for equity investment risk management.
BOX 3.4: IFSB PRINCIPLES OF RATE OF EQUITY INVESTMENT
RISK MANAGEMENT
Principle 3.1:
IIFS shall have in place appropriate strategies,
risk management and reporting processes in respect of the risk
characteristics of equity investments, including Mud. ¯arabah and
Mush¯arakah investments.
Principle 3.2:
IIFS shall ensure that their valuation methodologies
are appropriate and consistent, and shall assess the potential
impacts of their methods on profit calculations and allocations.
The methods shall be mutually agreed between the IIFS and the
Mud. ¯arib and/or Mush¯arakah partners.
Principle 3.3:
IIFS shall define and establish the exit strategies in
respect of their equity investment activities, including extension
and redemption conditions for Mud¯arabah and Mush¯arakah invest-
ments, subject to the approval of the institution’s Shar¯ı’ah Board.
Source: Based on data from IFSB (2005a)
Most banks, whether conventional or Islamic, deal in quoted and non-quoted
equities all over the world. Typical examples of equity investments are holdings
of shares in the stock market, private equity investments, syndications, manage-
ment buyouts, etc. However, the nature of Islamic finance contracts, particularly
the musharakah and mudarabah contracts, may result in specific equity risks to
IFIs. This is mainly because one of their main characteristics lies in the sharing
between the IFI and the partner of profit and loss that is driven by the share in the
investment’s equity (Grais and Kulathunga, 2007). Therefore, the degree of risk
under those contracts is relatively higher than that of other investments.
Mudarabah can expose the IFI to moral hazard and to principal–agent prob-
lems when the bank enters as rab al-mal and the mudarib is the agent. While the
bank bears all the losses in case of negative outcome, it cannot oblige the mudarib

--- Página 82 ---
66
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
to take appropriate action or exert the required level of effort needed to gener-
ate the expected level returns. Such situations might be exploited by the mudarib
(Greuning and Iqbal, 2008).
This moral hazard problem would be reduced in musharakah, where the cap-
ital of the partner is always at stake. Furthermore, the bank’s position as an equity
partner would minimise the problem of information asymmetry, as it would have
the right to participate in management of the project in which it is investing. How-
ever, the musharakah asset class has an associated cost in the form of adverse
selection and therefore requires extensive due diligence in terms of screening,
information gathering and enhanced monitoring afterwards. Each musharakah
contract requires careful analysis and negotiation of PLS arrangements, leading
to higher costs of intermediation.
In addition, equity investments may not generate steady income, and capital
gain might be the only source of return. The unscheduled nature of cash flows
makes it difficult to forecast and manage them.
As a result of the additional equity problems associated with both types of
contracts, IFIs in practice tend to allocate limited funds to these asset classes. This
implies an increased reliance on asset-backed securities, which limits the choice
of investments and ultimately might hamper the bank’s ability to manage risks
and diversify its portfolio (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008). A few IFIs also tend to
build portfolios of participations in the capital of a set of financial and industrial
companies held for strategic purposes. Usually, mudarabah contracts are used, as
is the case for Shari’ah-compliant investment and/or private equity firms such as
Arcapita Bank and Gulf Finance House in Bahrain.
Mark-up risk Islamic banks are exposed to mark-up risk, as the mark-up rate
used in murabahah or other trade-financing contracts is fixed for the duration of the
contract, while the general ‘market mark-up rate’ used in the financial market may
rise or fall over that time period (FRSGlobal, 2009). This means that the prevailing
market mark-up rate may rise beyond the rate the bank has locked into a contract,
making the bank unable to benefit from higher rates. Very often the mark-up rate
(or benchmark rate) will be an international one such as the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR), which gives rise also to a so-called ‘benchmark risk’.
Benchmark risk Benchmark risk is the risk of loss due to a change in the margin
between domestic rates of return and the benchmark rates of return, which may
not be linked closely to domestic returns. For instance, Islamic products issued in
Malaysia can be linked to the Kuala Lumpur Interbank Offered Rate (KLibor), the
national variant of LIBOR, but this is certainly not the case for all countries and
contracts (Mahlknecht, 2009). In the absence of an Islamic benchmark or reference
rate, a questionable but common practice has been to use the LIBOR as a proxy
which aligns the market risk closely with the movement in LIBOR rates.

--- Página 83 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
67
According to an interview with Yaccubi (2010), the practice of using LIBOR
as the reference benchmark was originally considered an exception allowed by
Shari’ah scholars under the law of necessity. This exception has become a general
rule and the practice is so prevailing that most practitioners do not even question
it. Yet, using LIBOR as a benchmark has its proponents and opponents.
The proponents of the practice argue that it is simply a reference point of
the current capital market indicating the opportunity cost of capital, which should
not be different in global markets where Islamic and conventional banking coexist
(Askari et al., 2009). If the opportunity cost of capital is not the same, arbitrage
opportunities will arise. They also argue that using a non-Shari’ah-compliant ref-
erence point does not invalidate a Shari’ah-compliant transaction, as the index is
just used as a reference. Moreover, an Islamic benchmark is not expected in the
near term. According to the Shari’ah scholar Aznan Hasan, “A dual system which
has both Islamic and conventional benchmark financing rates could throw mar-
kets into disarray . . . People will arbitrage. Once they see conventional financing
is much better, they will go for conventional. Once they see Islamic is much better,
they will go for Islamic. In that situation, it will give a big turbulence to a country.
The subject has to be treated very delicately” (Y-Sing, 2009).
On the other hand, opponents of this practice argue that in an Islamic eco-
nomic system, the rate of return on a financial asset should be derived from the
rate of return in the real sector and using LIBOR as a benchmark does precisely the
opposite, and thus violates the foundation of an Islamic financial system (Askari
et al., 2009).
Currency risk Currency risk is of a ‘speculative’ nature and could result in a
gain or loss depending on the direction of exchange rate shifts and whether a bank
is net long or net short in the foreign currency. For example, in the case of a net
long position in the foreign currency, domestic currency depreciation will result
in a net gain for a bank, and a currency appreciation will produce a loss, and vice
versa, explains Fochler (2010), who was interviewed for this research.
As for conventional banks, IFIs’ exposure to foreign exchange risk can be
harmful. While conventional banks can easily hedge themselves through swaps
or other hedging instruments, these are generally forbidden in Islamic finance,
making the situation more challenging for IFIs. However, most Islamic banks are
active in the GCC, where local currencies are pegged either to the US dollar or to
a basket of international currencies, reducing tremendously their volatility. In the
longer run, GCC economies might converge toward a single regional currency,
the anchor of which might not be the US dollar or the euro, but potentially a wider
mix of internationally recognised currencies. This would in turn allow for some
discrepancy between the reporting currency of GCC-based IFIs and the various
cash flows they generate from multiples geographies. This will become even

--- Página 84 ---
68
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
more obvious as IFIs such as Kuwait Finance House, Al Rajhi Bank and Qatar
Islamic Bank are expanding abroad in a more ordered and ambitious manner,
sometimes in other emerging markets including the relatively volatile economies
of Pakistan, Turkey, Sudan and even Yemen. These jurisdictions are increasingly
the key to the future growth of IFIs as they have far larger Muslim populations
and are comparatively underbanked (Standard & Poor’s, 2010b).
Commodity and price risks In the case of salam contracts, IFIs are exposed to
commodity price volatility during the period between delivery of the commodity
and its sale at the prevailing market price. This risk is similar to the market risk
of a forward contract if it is not hedged properly. In order to hedge its position, an
Islamic bank may enter into a parallel (off-setting) bay’ al-salam contract (Greun-
ing and Iqbal, 2008). Similarly, when the istisna’a contract is used, the delivery of
the commodity is at a specific time in the future, where its price may differ from
the set one.
In addition, salam contracts are neither exchange traded nor traded over the
counter. Thus, all the salam contracts end up in physical deliveries and ownership
of commodities. These commodities require inventories exposing the IFI to storage
costs and other related price risk. Such costs and risks are unique to Islamic banks
(Greuning and Iqbal, 2008).
In murabahah contracts the bank is financing the contract on a certain profit
added to the initial commodity price. The difference between the agreed and the
future market price of the commodity is the actual exposure of the corresponding
risk that banks take, at least in theory. In practice, the bank takes the commodity
risk for a few seconds as it purchases and sells the commodities to commodity bro-
kers – like Dawnay Day, Richmond, Aston commodities and others – who enter
into a purchase undertaking with the bank. This practice, referred to as tawarruq,
has been criticised by many Shari’ah scholars. It was approved initially as an
interim solution until IFIs move to genuine commodity murabahah, but it seems
that several banks took advantage from this interim approval and prefer to stick
to tawarruq as it bears minimal commodity risks to the bank.
In addition, in the case of an operating ijarah, the IFI is exposed to market
risk in the case of a fall in the residual value of the leased asset at the maturity of
the lease term (Ahmed and Khan, 2007).
Finally, IFIs have been investing heavily in the sukuk market. However, given
that the secondary market for sukuk is very limited, the prices of such instruments
are highly distorted. Thus, IFIs holding such securities are exposed to volatility in
yield, unless they hold the sukuk until maturity.
Managing market risk for IFIs
In order to manage market risk, first Islamic
banks must be able to measure it accurately. To date, there is not a single Islamic
banking system that is capable of measuring market risk properly (Marx, 2010).

--- Página 85 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
69
According to Bhat, one of the interviewees for this research (from InfrasoftTech,
a specialised IT company for developing technology solutions and systems for
Islamic banks): “I am confident Islamic banks will get there, it is a matter of time.
One has to remember that conventional banking has mega banks that are capable
of spending millions on developing sophisticated systems, something that Islamic
banking is missing, given its relative nascent state.” His interview was not included
in the final sample, however.
In the absence of Shari’ah-compliant hedging tools and liquid secondary mar-
kets, managing market risk is more expensive in Islamic banking than it is in
conventional banking. Marx (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, adds
“for example, to carry a profit rate swap in the Islamic banking market, I have to
pay around 30 bps higher than what this would usually cost in the conventional
market. This is because very few banks have the capability, systems and credit
lines available to write Islamic profit rate swaps and they exploit this position.”
Most advanced market risk management tools, such as VaR, and simulation
models require huge trading volumes, a long history of price changes and
volatility in order to be able to perform back-testing and stress-testing. This is
simply unavailable for Islamic banking given its relatively new state and the
limited market liquidity. VaR does not work well for illiquid markets with high
concentrations; unfortunately this is the current state of most Islamic banking
operators. In addition, issuers in Islamic finance tend to have a relatively small
number of issues with short-term maturities. Furthermore, there tends to be a wide
gap between the bid/offer spreads on Islamic instruments due to limited liquidity.
All these factors indirectly distort the applicability of conventional market risk
management tools in Islamic banking. “Islamic banking is not mature enough
to apply existing conventional market risk mitigation and hedging techniques.
It needs to develop its own set of risk management tools” adds Qaedi (2010), one
of the interviewees for this research.
In the absence of sophisticated tools, Islamic banks tend to use traditional
risk management techniques to manage their market risk. Simple stress-testing,
marking to market, stop-loss provisions, position limits, duration methodologies,
scenario analysis, price sensitivity and profit rate analysis are the most commonly
used practices, mainly carried out using spreadsheets rather than sophisticated
IT systems. “Very simple models, but currently adequate given the complexity
of Islamic banking” comments Lowe (2010), one of the interviewees for this
research.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity is necessary for banks to compensate for expected and unexpected bal-
ance sheet fluctuations and to provide funds for growth. It represents a bank’s

--- Página 86 ---
70
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
ability to accommodate the redemption of deposits and other liabilities and to
cover the demand for funding in the loan and investment portfolio (Iqbal and
Mirakhor, 2007). Liquidity needs usually are determined by the construction of a
maturity ladder that comprises expected cash inflows and outflows over a series of
specific time bands; liquidity management is related to a net funding requirement.
Liquidity risk results when the bank’s ability to match the maturity of assets
and liabilities is impaired. In other words, the risk arises due to insufficient liq-
uidity for normal operating requirements reducing the bank’s ability to meet its
liabilities when they fall due. This risk may result from either difficulties in obtain-
ing cash at reasonable cost from borrowings (funding risk) or sale of assets (asset
liquidity risk). While funding risk can be controlled by proper planning of cash
flow needs and seeking newer sources of funds to finance cash shortfalls, the asset
liquidity risk can be mitigated by diversification of assets and setting limits of
certain illiquid products (Khan and Ahmed, 2001).
The market turmoil that began in mid-2007 has highlighted the crucial impor-
tance of market liquidity to the banking sector. The contraction of liquidity in
certain structured product and interbank markets, as well as an increased proba-
bility of off balance sheet commitments coming onto banks’ balance sheets, led
to severe funding liquidity strains for some banks and central bank intervention
in some cases. These events emphasised the interrelationship between funding,
liquidity and credit risks, and the fact that liquidity is a key determinant of the
soundness of the banking sector (BCBS, 2008). Financial innovation and global
market developments have transformed the nature of liquidity risk in recent years.
The funding of some banks has shifted toward a greater reliance on the capital
markets, which are potentially a more volatile source of funding than traditional
retail deposits. In addition, the growth and product range of the securitisation mar-
ket has broadened as the originate-to-distribute business model has become more
widespread. Northern Rock is a classic example of a bank that was brought down
due to lack of liquidity rather than any credit or solvency risk. The bank simply
borrowed for the short term from the capital markets and lent for the long term to
residential mortgages.
Inspired by international drive from the Basel Committee on Banking Super-
vision (BCBS) and the Committee of European Banking Supervisors on liquidity
management, regulators around the globe have been working on introducing a
series of new rules outlining features of a new liquidity regime which proposes
much higher levels of stress-testing and stricter liquidity management approaches.
Basel III is the most obvious example.
Liquidity risk in Islamic banks
IFSB Principles, as in Box 3.5, introduce the
risk management strategy for liquidity risk management.

--- Página 87 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
71
BOX 3.5: IFSB PRINCIPLES OF LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT
Principle 5.1:
IIFS shall have in place a liquidity management frame-
work (including reporting) taking into account separately and on an
overall basis their liquidity exposures in respect of each category of
current accounts, unrestricted and restricted investment accounts.
Principle 5.2:
IIFS shall assume liquidity risk commensurate with
their ability to have sufficient recourse to Shar¯ı’ah-compliant funds
to mitigate such risk.
Source: Based on data from IFSB (2005a)
Islamic banks have traditionally held high levels of cash/liquid assets, ideally
to safeguard the interests of their depositors, investors and shareholders against
credit upheavals and liquidity crunch. This reduces liquidity risks in an economic
downturn. In addition, from a leverage perspective, IFIs’ operational models are
built upon conservative fundamental values that discourage the use of dispro-
portionate levels of debt to finance assets, as well as speculative and doubtful
investments, a position which has inhibited the industry in terms of its use of lever-
age. As a result, IFIs’ funding portfolios are highly concentrated in a few liquid
assets and are deficient in terms of a securitised asset base (IFSB, 2008a).
At the same time, underutilised surplus liquidity on most IFIs’ books has led
to weak asset–liability management, which translates into liquidity risk. This risk
arises from the scarcity of medium- and long-term funds to reduce the gap between
assets and liabilities. The analysis in Figure 3.3 categorises the assets and liabili-
ties of a sample of 20 leading Islamic banks into short term, medium term and long
term. IFIs use short- and medium-term liabilities to finance long-term assets. Cur-
rently, IFIs are highly dependent on short-term funds to manage their longer-tenure
liabilities. This issue has become even more crucial in today’s capital market envi-
ronment because the frequency of asset write-downs is on the rise. In the wake of
global financial developments, liquidity has become one of the most critical risks
for IFIs for the following reasons:
(i) Limited availability of Shari’ah-compliant liquidity management instru-
ments because most instruments used for liquidity management purposes are
interest-based and Shari’ah does not allow the sale of debt, other than at its
face value. Thus, to raise funds by selling debt-based assets is not an option
for IFIs;

--- Página 88 ---
72
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Leading Islamic banks’ balance sheet breakdown 2007 
Balance sheet breakdown
Short term
Medium term
Long term
Assets
Liabilities
Sample of 20 leading Islamic banks
Note: Asset/liability tenure defined as follows: Short term 0 to 3 months; Medium term 3+ months
to 2 years; Long term 2+ years and beyond  
FIGURE 3.3
Breakdown analysis of leading Islamic banks’ balance sheets
Source: Based on data from Zawya and Oliver Wyman Analysis (2009)
(ii) Shallow secondary market exists to enable IFIs to manage their liquidity
(Qaedi, 2010);
(iii) Absence of lender of last resort (central bank), which is vital for meeting the
bank’s need for short-term cash flow;
(iv) Wide maturity mismatches between assets and liabilities as funding is
still dominated by short-term customer deposits, whereas credit portfolios
(namely in the retail, mortgage and project finance segments) tend to witness
longer tenors and duration (Moody’s, 2009c); and
(v) Certain characteristics of some Islamic finance instruments give rise to liq-
uidity risks. For instance, liquidity becomes a problem given the cancellation
risks in murabahah or the inability to trade murabahah or salam contracts
(Alvi, 2009a).
Despite the efforts of the Central Bank of Bahrain (CBB) and others to pro-
vide a range of liquid instruments in which Islamic banks can place their surplus
cash, there is still a great shortage of liquid instruments, which means IFIs tend
to have more non-earning assets on their books. Typically, Islamic banks would
place their excess cash reserves into short-term interbank murabahahs, at a cost
compared to conventional banks. Indeed, short-term murabahahs resemble money

--- Página 89 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
73
market interbank placements, but as murabahah contracts make it necessary for
commodity brokers to be involved, costs for managing liquidity might be high. As
a consequence, IFIs are truly – and often more visibly – subject to the constant
trade-off between profitability and liquidity in a binary way (Moody’s, 2009c).
Contrary to conventional banks, which benefit from a range of asset classes
displaying different characteristics in terms of liquidity and profitability, IFIs at
this stage of the development of the Islamic financial industry barely have an
alternative – profitable but highly illiquid asset classes (such as credit exposures
and sukuk); or highly liquid short-term murabahahs with international investment-
grade banks, but at a cost. Even before the present crisis, liquidity on the secondary
sukuk markets was quite limited. The fact that most sukuk investors have always
adopted a buy-and-hold strategy only exacerbates the normal problems associated
with a relatively new market. Critically in the current environment, such a situation
could also continue to slow the efforts of central banks to boost sukuk liquidity.
The assets side of the balance sheet will typically show investments in secu-
rities, leased assets and real estate. It will also show equity investments in joint
ventures or capital ventures and sales receivables, and also inventories of assets
held for sale. Most of these assets are illiquid and it is unlikely that any could be
sold in a short space of time.
Fortunately, yields on Islamic assets in many markets are still sufficient for the
cost of managing liquidity, because ‘borrowers’ are often willing to pay a premium
for the Islamic nature of the banking relationship they build with the IFI. In the
future, however, as the industry matures, margins might come under pressure and
the trade-off between liquidity and profitability might lead to an increase in IFIs’
risk appetite, provided that instruments for liquidity management purposes are not
designed for the benefit of IFIs (Moody’s, 2009c).
Figure 3.4, extracted from a typical credit application for an anonymous coun-
terparty at the European Islamic Investment Bank, illustrates a typical liquidity
structure of many Islamic banks with an imbalanced funding continuum heav-
ily reliant on short-term customer deposits. IFIs normally have a high volume of
assets, which are generally of longer term than most deposits. Islamic banks have
to manage this funding gap carefully: if there were a liquidity freeze like the one
that struck Western banks, the damage among Islamic banks would be greater.
Islamic banks use cash from deposits and short-term liquid assets to
finance long-term liabilities. As a result, the liability makeup affects their
funding structures differently and reflects an institution’s specific asset–liability
management policies. In comparison with conventional banks, asset-backed
transactions (depending on the character of the asset) can expose an IFI both as an
investor with high credit risk and also as an owner when dealing with long-term
assets such as property and/or infrastructure. In order to mitigate this long-term
liability-related risk, an IFI should have a vast pool of assets with a maturity range

--- Página 90 ---
74
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Imbalanced funding continuum heavily reliant on short-term customer deposits to fund long-term assets 
(6,000,000)
(4,000,000)
(2,000,000)
0
2,000,000
4,000,000
6,000,000
8,000,000
0–30 days
31–90 days
91–1 year
1–5 years
5 years +
Short-term liabilities to fund longer-term assets
Negative liquidity gap in the short-term
Funding analysis
FIGURE 3.4
Example of imbalanced funding continuum at an Islamic bank
Source: Based on data from a credit application for an anonymous counterparty at the
European Islamic Investment Bank (2010)
at its disposal to close the asset–liability gap (Lowe, 2010; Lowe was interviewed
for this research).
As a result, the Islamic banking industry is faced with a conundrum: its institu-
tions maintain high concentrations in current/short-term liabilities, but, at the same
time, they are exposed to highly profitable, but illiquid, long-term assets (e.g. prop-
erty and infrastructure, and sukuk), and they have limited access to long-term fund-
ing solutions. The nature of the Islamic banking model and Shari’ah-compliant
laws applicable to the available asset classes means that these banks are persis-
tently faced with a swap between liquidity and profitability (Moody’s, 2009c).
According to McKinsey & Company (2009), on the liquidity front, as depicted
in Figure 3.5, Islamic banks have a more pronounced maturity mismatch than con-
ventional banks. However, Islamic Banks source more funds from deposits.
Attempts to reduce liquidity risk for Islamic banks
The abovemention-
ed factors made liquidity risk management far from an easy task for IFIs, which
need to weather possible liquidity shortages in light of unforeseen events. For
instance, during the financial crisis in Turkey during the period 2000–2001, IFIs
faced severe liquidity problems and one, Ihlas Finance, collapsed (Standard &

--- Página 91 ---
Net liquidity gap by contractual maturity
Breakdown analysis of IFIs' funding base (1/2)
(26)
10 
23 
(7)
(20)
9 
16 
(5)
< 3 months
3–12 months
1–5 years
> 5 years
Islamic banks*
Conventional banks*
Net liquidity gap in 2008 
Net liquidity gap in 2007
(6)
1
7
(2)
Difference between Islamic banks & conventional banks
(24)
9 
15 
(7)
7 
11 
(11)
< 3 months
3–12 months
1–5 years
> 5 years
(17)
2
4
(11)
*Based on a sample of 7 of each of the largest conventional & Islamic banks (by assets) in the GCC
FIGURE 3.5
Breakdown analysis of IFIs’ funding base
Source: Authors’ analysis based on figures from McKinsey & Company (2009)
75

--- Página 92 ---
Break down of liabilities & comparison between Islamic & conventional banks
Breakdown analysis of IFIs' funding base (2/2)
*Includes all pure Islamic banks in the UAE , KSA, Kuwait & Qatar
** Includes all conventional banks in the UAE , KSA, Kuwait & Qatar
69%
100%
100%
54%
10%
15%
6%
22%
11%
13%
Customer
deposits
Interbank
liabilities
Equity
Bonds & other
long-term
liabilities
Total
liabilities
Total
liabilities
Bonds & other
long-term
liabilities
Equity
Interbank
liabilities
Customer
deposits
Liability breakdown in 2008 
Liability breakdown in 2007 
Islamic banks*
Conventional banks**
66%
100%
100%
58%
7%
17%
10%
23%
11%
8%
Customer
deposits
Interbank
liabilities
Equity
Bonds & other
long-term
liabilities
Total
liabilities
Total
liabilities
Bonds & other
long-term
liabilities
Equity
Interbank
liabilities
Customer
deposits
Islamic banks
Conventional banks
FIGURE 3.5
(Continued)
76

--- Página 93 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
77
Poor’s, 2010a). Market participants hope that the greater use of innovative
asset classes will complement the currently variety-starved asset section on the
balance sheet and help IFIs deal with liquidity concerns more efficiently. Several
developments have taken place with a view to meeting this challenge.
In Saudi Arabia, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA) has developed
an ad hoc instrument called mutajara, which behaves like a repurchase agreement,
known as ‘repo’ in the banking world. Contractually, it is a term deposit with
SAMA or other financial institutions, but 75% of this deposit can be ‘repoed’ at
SAMA at any point in time for liquidity purposes. This is notably the case for Al
Rajhi Bank, which has an investment portfolio that can be repoed with SAMA
(Moody’s, 2009c).
In Bahrain, the CBB is also working on developing a Shari’ah-compliant repo
scheme. In addition, the Liquidity Management Centre (LMC) was founded in
2002 in Bahrain to facilitate the investment of surplus funds of IFIs into financial
instruments structured in accordance with Shari’ah principles. It also aims to assist
the International Islamic Financial Markets (IIFM) in the creation of secondary
market activity with designated market makers where such instruments can be
actively traded. Early in 2009, the IIFM announced that it has plans to cooperate
with the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) to develop a repo-type
liquidity management tool in order to manage overnight liquidity more efficiently
in the future (Mahlknecht, 2009).
Similarly, the Central Bank of Sudan has introduced Shari’ah-compatible
securities to provide liquidity in the market (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008).
Malaysia had also taken steps to reduce liquidity risk among Islamic banks.
The central bank, Bank Negara Malaysia, introduced the Islamic Interbank
Money Market (IIMM) in early 1994. The activities of the IIMM include the
purchase and sale of Islamic financial instruments among market participants,
interbank investment activities through mudarabah interbank investment scheme,
and a cheque clearing and settlement system. The Islamic financial instruments
that are currently being traded in the market on the basis of bay’ al-dayn (sale of
debt) are bankers’ acceptances, Islamic bills, Islamic mortgage bonds and Islamic
private securities. In addition, IFIs can sell government investment issues to the
central bank, as and when required, to meet their liquidity needs. In turn, IFIs can
buy Shari’ah-compliant investment issues from the central bank (Greuning and
Iqbal, 2008).
Whereas the contract of bay’ al-dayn is commonly accepted and practised
in the Malaysian financial markets, it is not accepted by the majority of Shari’ah
scholars outside of Malaysia, who maintain that debt can be traded only at par.
According to one of the interviewees for this research, Kailani (2010), if trade is
not at par, they feel that the practice opens the door to riba.
Mahlknecht (2009) suggests creating a common pool to which all IFIs
contribute a specific percentage of their deposits in exchange for the right to

--- Página 94 ---
78
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
receive interest-free loans overnight or for up to three days. He adds that an
exceptionally promising route would be to integrate the IDB into such structures
in order to encourage cross-border participation by Islamic banks.
Finally, the introduction of sukuk is a good development that can provide
the foundation for the development of secondary markets. A sukuk structured on
murabahah, salam and istisn’a should be held to maturity, while sukuk structured
on equity basis (musharakah and mudarabah) or ijarah sukuk can be traded on
the secondary market (Dar Al Istithmar, 2006). Legislative steps, including the
creation of Saudi sukuk and bond market under the Tadawul (the Saudi stock
exchange), are improving the prospects of sukuk becoming an attractive liquid
instrument. Recent similar reforms in South Korea and Indonesia should also sup-
port the longer-term viability of the primary sukuk market and the establishment of
an active secondary market, which will benefit the longer-term prospects of sukuk
as an investment instrument among issuers and investors alike. According to Stan-
dard & Poor’s (2009), such developments are timely steps that should both diver-
sify Islamic finance assets and address investor needs, as well as adding depth to
the market and enhancing transparency and efficiency among market participants.
Sukuk offer a longer-term and more stable source of funding. In addition,
governments and government-related institutions have made it clear on several
occasions that their role on the sukuk market would not be limited to that of a
benchmark-setter; issuing sovereign and public sector sukuk would also contribute
to enhancing the overall liquidity of the market. However, sukuk still constitute a
very small proportion of the balance sheet despite the recent rapid growth in this
funding source. Still illiquid, dominated by local issuances and hardly traded glob-
ally, sukuk cannot be considered an effective fixed-income instrument for active
management of balance sheets and liquidity. According to one of the interviewees
for this research, Marx (2010), most repurchase agreements (repos) with bank
counterparts or central banks are riba-based, so sukuk can hardly be used as repo
collateral and very seldom serves as the basis for raising emergency liquidity in
the event of need.
The gradual introduction of sukuk funds will help create a secondary mar-
ket for sukuk, whereby investors, including banks, can price their sukuk fairly,
enhancing both liquidity and secondary market tradability (Moody’s, 2009d).
Market observers have pointed out that the lack of sukuk liquidity is still a
primary weakness compared with conventional bonds. Another interviewee in this
research, Masri (2010), argues that central banks and major international institu-
tions do not accept any of the currently issued sukuk for repos: (i) because of the
lack of secondary market for sukuk; (ii) because of the non-convertibility to other
currencies; and (iii) because most sukuk issues are not rated by international rating
agencies. The first sukuk that is expected to be internationally accepted for repos

--- Página 95 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
79
is the long-anticipated sukuk to be issued by the UK government. Masri believes
that, until a sophisticated repos market is developed for Islamic finance, the liq-
uidity problem will persist. “There are initiatives to develop a Shari’ah-compliant
repo market but for the time being Islamic banks have only limited scope for get-
ting hold of money in a quick way. The lack of Shari’ah-compliant assets and
a tendency for Islamic investors to buy and hold their investments have stunted
the secondary market”, as identified by Qaedi (2010), one of the interviewees for
this research.
So far, IFIs have preferred an originate-and-hold business model due to the
lack of a secondary market for loans and sukuk. However, in the longer term,
IFIs with limited capital resources might be more inclined to adopt an originate-
and-distribute business approach, provided disintermediation picks up, market
depth and liquidity improves, and growth in Islamic assets continues unabated.
The effect of the credit crisis on the sukuk market and the emergence of
defaults are thoroughly discussed in Chapter 5.
Furthermore, Marx (2010), who was interviewed for this research, explains
that traditionally Islamic banks have circumvented the lack of an Islamic money
market by entering into bilateral commodity trades with Western banks that pro-
duce a return very close to the equivalent money market instruments. Although
this is a valuable source of liquidity, it is an inadequate and fragmented solution to
a problem that is perceived to be one of the greatest hindrances to a fully integrated
Islamic financial system. One of the aims of the LMC is to provide instruments
that have greater Shari’ah credibility and are more competitively priced than the
commodity murabahah transactions currently undertaken in the market.
Because of the lack of adequate Shari’ah-compliant money market instru-
ments for liquidity management and the underdevelopment of Islamic money mar-
kets, the studies by IFSB in March 2008 provide suggestions for the development
of the Islamic money market. Among the suggestions are to design a low-risk
Islamic money market and Islamic government financing instruments and to incor-
porate Islamic government financing instruments as an integral part of the overall
public debt and financing programme and foster its development (IFSB, 2008a).
Finally, October 2010 saw the signing and launch of the International Islamic
Liquidity Management Corporation (IILM), the latest transnational body to serve
the global Islamic finance industry. The ultimate aim of the IILM is to enhance
international integration of the Islamic money market and capital markets and
to better equip them to face any liquidity crises. This breakthrough will surely
help take Islamic finance to a higher level of development. It was proposed by the
IILM to include only AAA-rated Shari’ah-compliant sukuk issued by sovereigns,
quasi-sovereigns and a selected number of major corporates. However, critics have
suggested that the pool of AAA-rated papers is not sufficient. Governor Zeti, Bank

--- Página 96 ---
80
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Negara Malaysia, stated, “we inject or withdraw liquidity from the system. There
are very strict criteria for the eligibility of assets, as it is not the shareholders them-
selves that would allocate assets. Central banks can nominate entities to donate
assets, which can be monetised. They will issue Islamic commercial papers against
these assets through special purpose vehicles. They will be the primary dealers and
they will create the markets” (IFSB, 2011).
Asset–Liability Management
Asset–liability management (ALM) is closely correlated with liquidity risk
management. It is simply the practice of managing risks that arise due to
mismatches between the assets and liabilities of a bank. ALM is a management
tool that involves the raising and use of funds in terms of strategic planning,
implementation and control processes that affect the volume, mix, maturity,
profit rate sensitivity, quality and liquidity of a bank’s assets and liabilities. The
primary goal of ALM is to produce a high-quality, stable, large and growing
flow of net interest/profit rate income (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008). This goal
is accomplished by achieving the optimum combination and level of assets,
liabilities and financial risk.
Funding sources for IFIs
Table 3.2 shows that the limited range of possible
funding sources for IFIs leads to concentrated liabilities, imbalanced funding
mixes and stretched capital management strategies. IFIs’ wholesale liabilities
tend to be concentrated as they are generally well entrenched in retail banking,
which gives them access to a large, and increasing, pool of relatively cheap
deposits. When these are not in the form of Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts
(PSIAs), Islamic banks benefit from the fact that a portion of Islamic deposits
tend to be non-interest-bearing. This lowers their cost of funding compared with
conventional banks, increases their margins and improves their profitability.
In addition, Islamic depositors tend to display a strong sense of loyalty as they are
less rate-sensitive. This results in a longer-term behavioural nature of deposits.
However, as in most cases the contractual tenor of those deposits is short term:
the banks remain exposed to maturity/liquidity risk. In other words, in times of
crisis the bank may witness substantial withdrawals.
There are two types of PSIAs: restricted and unrestricted. For unrestricted
PSIAs there is no identified asset allocation, while for restricted accounts the bank
acts in a fiduciary capacity, with the investor choosing the nature of the invest-
ment to be made. In some cases these are accounted for as off balance sheet.
For these accounts, banks maintain two types of reserves: a profit equalisation
reserve to smooth returns and Investment Risk Reserves (IRRs) to absorb capital
losses. While contractually investors are expected to absorb losses (the bank being

--- Página 97 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
81
TABLE 3.2
Simplified balance sheet of an IFI
Assets and liabilities breakdown of an IFI
Simplified balance sheet of an IFI
IFI Balance sheet
1
7
6
5
4
3
2
Short-term interbank murabaha 
Investment sukuk 
Credit portfolio
Participants (musharaka)
Other investments (murabaha,
musharaka)
Others
1
7
6
5
4
3
2
Non-remunerated current
accounts
Short-term murabaha, interbank
& due to customers 
Long-term syndicated murabaha
Unrestricted PSIAs
Profit equalisation reserves
(PERs)
Issued sukuk 
Equity
Cash
Assets
Liabilities
liable only if there is negligence or fraud), the reality may be very different. Banks
are under pressure to offer competitive returns and repay in full on the due date
to ensure these assets continue to be funded. PSIAs in general have maturities of
12 months, and the assets financed tend to be fungible (Moody’s, 2008a).
Apart from retail accounts, which are in most cases both granular and sta-
ble across business cycles, IFIs also resort to wholesale creditors for funding.
So far, sukuk have not served as the main term funding source: only a hand-
ful of IFIs have issued medium-term sukuk so far, or are expected to do so in
the near future, such as Sharjah Islamic Bank, Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank and Al
Baraka Banking Group. For asset-backed sukuk, an Islamic bank needs to originate
enough income-generating contracts, the underlying assets of which are owned by
the bank (like in ijarah and/or musharakah), for the sukuk to be possible. How-
ever, the majority of sukuk issued so far, particularly in the Gulf region, have
been asset-based rather than asset-backed, with ‘par value repurchase undertak-
ing’ structures whereby the market value of the underlying assets bears little or no
relation to the funding amounts raised, argues Qaedi (2010), one of the intervie-
wees for this research. Also, as these are not true-sale structures, any non-liquid

--- Página 98 ---
82
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 3.3
Sources of funds: Islamic versus traditional banks
Islamic Banks
Traditional Banks
Tier 1 — Capital (equity)
Tier 1 — Capital (equity)
Tier 2 — Capital
Tier 2 — Capital (subordinated loans)
Current accounts
Current accounts
Saving accounts
Interest-based saving accounts
Unrestricted Profit-Sharing Investment
Accounts (PSIAs)
Time and certificates of deposits
Profit Equalisation Reserves (PERs)
Reserves
Investment Risk Reserves (IRRs)
Shareholders’ equity protects these liabilities
only in case of fiduciary risks (theory); PERs
and IRRs
Shareholders’ equity and
subordinated loans protect these
liabilities against all risks
Cost of funds: variable
Cost of funds: fixed
Source: Based on data from Khan (2004)
assets can be used. Therefore, IFIs typically raise short- to long-term funds from
bank and non-bank customers, who tend to be price sensitive, relatively unstable
(except those from the public sector) and concentrated, as depicted by Table 3.3.
Deposit concentration is generally a significant risk factor for IFIs.
It should be noted that IFIs’ funding bands remain imbalanced. Between
deposits in their various forms (qard hasan, PSIAs, murabahah, etc.) and Tier 1
capital, IFIs have so far had access to a limited number of alternative funding
sources with different features in terms of priority of claims and thus cost.
Only very few subordinated sukuk have been issued so far. Malayan Banking
Berhad in Malaysia, for example, issued a junior sukuk eligible as Tier 2 debt
under Bank Negara Malaysia’s regulation. According to Marx (2010), who
was interviewed for this research, bank securitisation, other Tier 2 instruments,
Tier 3 short-term debt to cover the regulatory capital charge of market risk, as
well as plain vanilla and innovative hybrid capital notes, are non-existent in
the Islamic financial industry. One of the reasons behind such a vacuum in the
wide – but often grey – area between deposit and core capital of IFIs lies in the
fact that a number of Shari’ah supervisory boards have been uncomfortable so
far with the concept of differentiating between priorities of claims of various
classes of stakeholders in the case of liquidation, adds another interviewee,
Chowdhury (2010).
IFIs’ capital management strategies therefore tend to be stretched. Allocation
of economic capital to business units using risk-adjusted return-on-capital

--- Página 99 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
83
methodologies, for example, is barely applied, except in a handful of well-
advanced institutions globally. However, even in the conventional universe, the
allocation of economic capital to business units is still limited to a relatively
small number of institutions that adopt more sophisticated risk management
techniques. Therefore, it is not surprising that advanced approaches for economic
capital computation have not so far been widely adopted by IFIs in emerging
markets. Capital allocation tends to be inefficient at this stage, although this is
not disadvantageous to a large extent as: (i) capitalisation ratios are high, and
capital is not scarce in the geographies where IFIs are most active (typically in the
Gulf region); (ii) asset yields are wide enough to serve record Return on Equity;
and (iii) actual yields on equity far exceed shareholders’ required rates of return
(Moody’s, 2008b).
In the longer run, and after the current financial tsunami, competitive pressure
and massive losses will drive margins down. In addition, customers will become
more educated about the concepts and principles underlying IBF and will tend
to be less willing to accept lower returns on their deposits and switch more
naturally to PSIAs, driving IFIs’ funding costs up. Finally, capital has become
scarcer given the recent losses and bailouts in the banking sector. All of these
elements could easily change the nature of the IFIs’ profitability equation, with
lower net returns directed toward more demanding shareholders. A solution to
the conundrum would be to let capitalisation ratios dwindle gradually to protect
returns to shareholders while building assets more efficiently above targeted
hurdle rates (Visser, 2009). Another option is to look for alternative financing
vehicles like hybrid instruments, various classes of PSIAs and securitisation.
Although debt obligations can be traded only at face value under Shari’ah law,
this does not apply to the trading of assets, which opens the potential for the use
of securitisation of assets such as leases (Visser, 2009). However, significant legal
hurdles need to be overcome before securitisation can become a feasible source
of funding for Islamic banks.
As a fact, capital is a very expensive way of funding. Islamic banks, particu-
larly in the GCC, therefore engage in higher-risk/high-yield transactions to make
up for the expensive funding via capital and consequently keep shareholders
satisfied with high returns. Those IFIs forced themselves, unintentionally, up the
risk curve instead of diversifying their risks. This makes the balance sheet of
Islamic banks quite polarised, with high real estate assets. This led Islamic banks
to a high concentration risk, on both sides of the balance sheet. A typical balance
sheet structure of many Islamic banks displays high exposure to properties on
the assets side; and limited funding sources with high reliance on short-term
liabilities and capital on the other side. This is a very unfavourable funding
continuum that has led Islamic banks to a vicious circle of risks: one risk creating
the next.

--- Página 100 ---
84
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
ALM in Islamic banking: theory versus practice
In theory, IFIs should be
less exposed to asset–liability mismatch than their conventional counterparts. This
comparative advantage is rooted in the ‘pass through’ nature of Islamic banks,
which act as agents for investors/depositors and pass all profits and losses through
to them (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008). In addition, the risk-sharing feature of Islamic
finance plays a critical role. Following the theoretical model, any negative shock
to an Islamic bank is absorbed by both shareholders and investors/depositors. On
the other hand, depositors in the conventional system have a fixed claim on the
returns of the bank’s assets, irrespective of the bank’s profitability on its assets
side. In other words, holders of PSIAs in the Islamic system should share in the
bank’s profits and losses alongside shareholders, and are exposed to the risk of
losing all or part of their initial investment. This contractual agreement between
the IFI and the PSIA holders should be based on a ‘pass through’ mechanism
in which all profits and losses are passed to the investors. Thus, the problem of
asset–liability mismatch should not exist. Some regulators have recognised this
and require these assets (generally 50% risk-weighting) to be included in capital
adequacy calculations and the reserves as Tier 2 capital (FRSGlobal, 2009). Gre-
uning and Iqbal (2008) argue that this type of financial intermediation contributes
to the stability of the financial system. Because of the nature of contracts both on
the assets and liabilities sides on the balance sheet, IFIs are often less vulnerable
to external shocks and less susceptible to insolvency. Chapter 5 covers in detail
how the Islamic financial system could act as a panacea for economic woes if its
fundamentals are genuinely applied.
The challenge to Islamic banks is to determine the rights and obligations
of PSIA holders vis-a-vis shareholders, especially when various types of
Shari’ah-compliant deposit accounts are offered, so as to ensure the required
disclosures and transparency in the distribution of profits and the sharing of risks
(IFSB, 2007).
Lowe (2010), one of the interviewees in this study, explains that from an ana-
lytical perspective, PSIAs should not be classified as equity-like liabilities, despite
their (theoretical) loss-absorbing characteristics. PSIAs are rather considered as
more debt-like liabilities. The rationale behind this treatment of PSIAs as liabil-
ities with no capital benefits is that, from an economic and practical perspective,
PSIAs:
(i) Are not permanent capital, as they tend to be very short-dated (with maturities
typically below one year);
(ii) Can be withdrawn before maturity, provided that the PSIA holder gives up
their contractual return to be earned at maturity;
(iii) Have no voting rights; and
(iv) In practice, are very rarely allowed to absorb losses.

--- Página 101 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
85
However, in practice the challenge is where there is a clear differentiation
between PSIA holders and equity holders. Can IFIs avoid combining shareholders’
and PSIA holders’ funds, as the theory would suggest? The liabilities of Islamic
banks may – in common with assets – have very different profiles and need careful
management. The biggest issue remains the position of PSIA. Juristically, PSIA
are a form of limited term equity rather than debt claims on the bank, and there-
fore losses relating to the assets they fund should not affect the bank’s own capital.
However, Islamic banks are not immune from runs or panic withdrawals, and PSIA
holders typically have the right to withdraw their funds at short notice, forgo-
ing their share of the profit for the most recent period and also their share of any
losses that might have arisen, explains Kailani (2010), who was interviewed for
this research.
Visser (2009) strongly opposes PSIAs by arguing that they involve a moral
hazard problem, as they might give the bank an incentive for risk-taking and for
operating with very little of their own funds. Depositors will have to take the brunt
if investments go sour, just like equity investors in a conventional investment com-
pany, only they have no say in the appointment of management. They only thing
depositors can do is to shift their funds to other banks, but they may not always
have sufficient information to do so in time. He adds that this moral hazard prob-
lem was cited as one reason by the Rector of Al-Azhar University in Cairo in his
2002 fatwa for declaring interest-bearing banking deposits halal. Visser (2009)
obviously misses the point that regulators and Shari’ah boards will not allow IFIs
to misuse PSIAs, and that IFIs put the utmost importance on avoiding any jeopardy
to their reputation.
Engel (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, adds that unrestricted
PSIA funds will generally be combined with those of the bank’s shareholders who
may have quite different risk appetites, as PSIA holders are generally looking
for a safe investment, similar to deposit account holders in conventional banks.
In practice, the treatment of the fund-combining issue is handled differently.
Shamil Bank of Bahrain has so far applied a strict distinction, for management
account and return computation purposes, between assets financed by sharehold-
ers’ funds and what the bank calls ‘unrestricted investment accounts’. Conversely,
Kuwait Finance House – like most IFIs – does not explicitly segregate classes of
liabilities and prefers a more flexible and convenient way of computing a total
gross return on assets, and then applying both a musharakah and mudarabah fee
to isolate returns to PSIA holders (Moody’s, 2008a).
The practice is therefore different from the theory, and the means of deter-
mining shareholder’s share is not always transparent. Notwithstanding such prac-
tical differences among IFIs in both combining funding sources and computing
returns, ‘displaced commercial risk’ is always at stake, giving birth to various
mechanisms of smoothing returns. Although displaced commercial risk is a unique

--- Página 102 ---
86
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
risk to IFIs, it is discussed in this section because it forms an essential part of ALM
for Islamic banks.
Displaced commercial risk
Displaced commercial risk is indeed a term
reflecting the risk of liquidity suddenly drying up as a consequence of massive
withdrawals should the IFI’s assets yield returns for PSIA holders lower than
expected, or worse, negative rates of profits. It is the transfer of the risk associated
with deposits to equity holders. This arises when under commercial pressure
banks forgo a part of profit to pay the depositors to prevent withdrawals due
to a lower return (AAOIFI, 1999). Displaced commercial risk implies that the
bank, although it may operate in full compliance with the Shari’ah requirements,
may not be able to pay competitive rates of return as compared to its peer group
Islamic banks and other competitors. Depositors will again have the incentive to
seek withdrawal. To prevent withdrawal, the shareholders will need to apportion
part of their own share in profits or even equity to the PSIA holders.
As demonstrated below, the practice of smoothing investment returns through
profit equalisation reserves (PERs), IRRs and active management of mudarib fees
is a very common feature of IFIs to avoid random, business and confidence-driven
liquidity crises. As a matter of fact, a negative return on PSIAs would not
constitute a breach of contractual obligations, as PSIAs are supposed to absorb
losses other than those triggered by misconduct or negligence, and therefore this
would not be considered a default. Nevertheless, default might be subsequently
triggered by the very tight liquidity conditions the IFI would face in the case of
massive runs on deposits. While this is in keeping with the risk-sharing principles
encouraged by Islam, it remains to be seen how such account holders would react
to losses on their accounts.
Some banking regulators have taken the view that this practice of smooth-
ing returns results in a modification of the legal attributes of the PSIA such that
Islamic banks have a ‘constructive obligation’ to continue smoothing returns. This
means that the practice of smoothing becomes obligatory, and unrestricted PSIA
holders effectively have the same rights as conventional depositors according to
Chowdhury (2010; Chowdhury was interviewed for this research). Kailani (2010)
explained, during the interview for this research, that a typical problem in West-
ern countries with highly developed markets is the legal definition of a ‘bank’ as a
‘deposit-taking institution’ – deposits having the legal status of debt contracts and
being ‘capital certain’ – whereas Islamic banks accept deposits as PSIAs, which
cannot be capital certain as the Shari’ah does not permit this.
Unfortunately, insofar as both Islamic banks and their supervisory authorities
in some countries consider unrestricted investment accounts to be a product
designed to compete with, and to be an acceptable substitute for, conventional
deposits, profit smoothing in such an environment may be considered an
inherent attribute of the product rather than a means of deliberately avoiding

--- Página 103 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
87
transparency and market discipline, especially if it is combined with in-substance
capital certainty (Archer and Karim, 2007). This undermines an important
inherent characteristic of risk mitigation within Islamic banking, as discussed
in Chapter 5.
Managing displaced commercial risk efficiently is a dynamic exercise
Thun (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, explains that traditionally
there are a number of lines of defence against displaced commercial risk: IRRs
and the bank’s mudarib fee tend to absorb expected losses; PERs are used to
cover unexpected losses of manageable magnitude; and, ultimately, shareholders’
funds stand against unexpected losses with a higher net impact. Figure 3.6 shows
how Islamic banks use these lines of defence to ensure stability.
IRRs are built from periodic provisions for expected statistical losses, which
come as a deduction from the asset portfolio, in the same way that loan-loss
reserves are deducted from conventional banks’ loan books. IRRs are gradually
built from the periodic provision charge equivalent to the expected losses attached
to IFIs’ investment portfolios, transiting through the IFI’s income statement.
Should actual losses be in line with IRRs, there is limited likelihood that displaced
commercial risk would materialise into a bank run and thus into a liquidity crisis.
Indeed, returns to PSIA holders would not be negatively affected. IRRs are
Highly unexpected loss
Unexpected loss
from PSIA financial
assets 
Unexpected loss
from current account &
capital financed assets 
Expected loss
Frequency of losses
Ensuring the stability of an Islamic bank
Managing displaced commercial risks in IFIs
Provisions from
income
PSIA capital & PER + Capital & IRR
Takaful
Size of the bubble reflects the size of loss in case the event occurs  
High frequency, low severity of loss  
Mid frequency, mid severity of loss  
Low frequency, high severity of loss  
FIGURE 3.6
Managing displaced commercial risk in IFIs
Source: Khan, T. (2004)

--- Página 104 ---
88
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
generally deducted from income distributable to PSIA holders after the PERs are
accounted for, and after the mudarib fee is captured by the IFI (Thun, 2010).
Reducing mudarib fees to protect returns to PSIA holders remains a
management decision. PSIAs are the combination of a musharakah contract
(whereby PSIA holders and shareholders bring funds to the banking venture) and
a mudarabah contract (whereby the IFI’s managers allocate PSIA holders’ funds
to various asset classes on their behalf). Therefore, the IFI is eligible, under the
mudarabah contract, for a mudarib (management) fee, which typically constitutes
20–40% of asset yields net of PERs. In case asset yields deteriorate beyond levels
absorbable by IRRs, the IFI’s management team, in line with the board’s formal
approval, could reduce management fees ex post, which it can do contractually
(although unilateral increases of mudarib fees are strictly forbidden). This is
viewed as a gift of the bank to PSIA holders to earn their loyalty across the
cycle (Chowdhury, 2010). Typically, mudarib fee reductions tend to apply when
unexpected losses (beyond expected losses handled by IRRs) are manageable
one-offs. When exceeding a certain threshold, losses would be covered by PERs
(Thun, 2010).
PERs, a grey area in the capital continuum, collectively belong to PSIA hold-
ers for smoothing their returns. PERs are accounted for before any computation
of the mudarib fee or IRRs. PERs are extracted from gross asset yields. Their
purpose is to provide an excess return to PSIA holders in periods where assets
have performed worse than expected, and therefore when yields on PSIAs might
be lower for a given IFI than for its Islamic and conventional peers. PERs col-
lectively belong to present and future PSIA holders, although past PSIA holders
(who might not be current or future customers of the IFI) may have contributed
to building them (Putz, 2010; one of the interviewees). This is in line with the
principle according to which the various stakeholders of an IFI are subject to
collective solidarity. PERs, being a future claim of PSIA holders on the bank, are
not part of capital in accounting terms, and thus are not subject to distribution
to shareholders (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008). From a regulatory perspective, how-
ever, the treatment suggested by the IFSB is very subtle, particularly in Western
jurisdictions; just like the treatment of PSIAs for the computation of capital
adequacy ratios of IFIs under Basel II, which is explained in detail in Chapter 4.
Smith (2010), Senior Analyst–Financial Institutions at Fitch Ratings and one
of the interviewees for this research, explains that shareholders’ funds constitute
the ultimate line of defence against displaced commercial risk. Ultimately, should
IRRs, mudarib fee cuts and PERs be insufficient to protect depositors from exces-
sive volatility regarding PSIA returns, shareholders can lawfully use their
own capital to compensate for possible losses or PSIA holders’ opportunity
costs. Shareholders’ funds have in the past been used to compensate holders of
investment accounts, such as in 1998 for Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC and in 1990
for Kuwait Finance House. In both cases, PSIA holders suffered no losses.

--- Página 105 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
89
Mahlknecht (2009) argues that an extreme example of displaced commercial
risk is the International Islamic Bank for Investment and Development in Egypt,
which distributed all of its profits to IAHs and nothing to shareholders from the
middle to late 1980s. In 1988 the bank distributed to its depositors an amount
exceeding its profits, and the difference appeared in the bank’s accounts a ‘loss
carried forward’. The practice of forgoing part or all of the shareholder’s prof-
its may adversely affect the bank’s own capital, which can lead to insolvency in
extreme cases.
In short, although in theory there should be no mismatch between assets and
liabilities of an Islamic bank, current practices have introduced distortions that
expose banks to asset–liability mismatch risk, especially when they have no liquid
assets with which they can hedge such risks. Greuning and Iqbal (2008) believe
that IFIs should standardise how to deal with displaced commercial risk, and that
the rights of PSIAs should be clearly stated and explained to all depositors. They
suggest that the profits should be deducted only from long-term depositors, who
are more likely to be exposed to such risk, and not from short-term depositors,
who are not exposed to it.
Operational Risk
Historically, operational risk has been defined as all risks other than market, credit
and liquidity risk. However, the BCBS (2006) has narrowed this definition within
Basel II by stating that operational risk is “The risk of loss resulting from inade-
quate or failed internal processes, people or systems or from external events.” This
definition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic and reputational risk.
Operational risk has been recently recognised and has been gaining promi-
nence in risk-related research. It is now part of the integrated risk management
framework of all financial institutions, which typically increases with the scope
and size of activities of a bank but can be mitigated by a sophisticated risk man-
agement function and systems. The major components of operational risk are
people, processes, technology and external events (usually catastrophic). People
risk includes human error, lack of expertise and compliance, and fraud. Process
risk includes risks related to different aspects of running a business, which may
include regular business processes, risk related to new products and services, inad-
equate controls, etc. (Akkizidis and Khandelwal, 2007).
Lowe (2010) argues that operational risks are rather difficult to measure and
manage because these risks become apparent only once a problem arises. He stated
that risks associated with operational risk could include:
(i) Internal fraud. For example, intentional misreporting of positions, employee
theft, and insider trading on an employee’s own account;
(ii) External fraud. For example, robbery, forgery, cheque kiting and damage
from computer hacking;

--- Página 106 ---
90
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
(iii) Employment practices and workplace safety. For example, workers’ com-
pensation claims, violation of employee health and safety rules, organised
labour activities, discrimination claims and general liability;
(iv) Clients, products and business practices. For example, fiduciary breaches,
misuse of confidential customer information, improper trading activities on
the bank’s account, money laundering and sale of unauthorised products;
(v) Damage to physical assets. For example, terrorism, vandalism, earthquakes,
fires and floods;
(vi) Business disruption and system failures. For example, hardware and software
failures, telecommunication problems and utility outages; and
(vii) Execution, delivery and process management. For example, data entry
errors, collateral management failures, incomplete legal documentation,
unapproved access given to client accounts, non-client counterparty misper-
formance and vendor disputes.
The wide range of activities included in operational risks make it difficult
to apply a standard model to all organisations and hence there is a lack of uni-
versally accepted standard models. Banks often use internal audit ratings, quality
self-assessments, operational risk indicators or Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) such
as volume, turnover, rate of errors, income and loss volatilities, etc.
Operational risk in Islamic banks
IFSB Principles, as in Box 3.6, introduce
the risk management strategy for operational risk management.
BOX 3.6: IFSB PRINCIPLES OF OPERATIONAL RISK
MANAGEMENT
Principle 7.1:
IIFS shall have in place adequate systems and con-
trols, including Shar¯ı’ah Board/Advisor, to ensure compliance
with Shar¯ı’ah rules and principles.
Principle 7.2:
IIFS shall have in place appropriate mechanisms to
safeguard the interests of all fund providers. Where IAH funds
are commingled with the IIFS’s own funds, the IIFS shall ensure
that the bases for asset, revenue, expense and profit allocations are
established, applied and reported in a manner consistent with the
IIFS’s fiduciary responsibilities.
Source: Based on data from IFSB (2005a)

--- Página 107 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
91
Operational risk is considered high on the list of risk exposures for Islamic
banks. A survey by Khan and Ahmed (2001) shows that the managers of Islamic
banks perceive operational risk as the most critical risk after mark-up risk. The sur-
vey found that operational risk is lower in the fixed-income contracts of muraba-
hah and ijarah, and higher in the deferred sales contracts of salam and istisna’a.
The relatively higher rankings of these instruments indicate that banks find them
complex and difficult to implement.
An internal control problem cost Dubai Islamic Bank USD 50 million in 1998
when a bank official did not conform to the bank’s credit terms. This resulted in a
one-day run on the bank’s deposits to the tune of USD 138 million, representing
around 7% of the bank’s total deposits at that time (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008).
It is argued that operational risks are likely to be significant for IFIs due
to their specific contractual features. Moreover, Islamic products are less com-
moditised and require more tailoring and oversight, and this leads to substantial
overheads and higher operational risk. One of the interviewees in this research,
Lowe (2010), asserts that a number of small IFIs have allowed their businesses
to grow rapidly without a proper organisational infrastructure in place. He listed
some specific aspects of Islamic banking that could raise the operational risk of
Islamic banks:
(i) Cancellation risks in the nonbinding murabahah and istisna’a contracts;
(ii) Failure of the internal control system to detect and manage potential problems
in the operational process and back-office;
(iii) Potential difficulties in enforcing Islamic contracts in a broader legal environ-
ment;
(iv) Need to maintain and manage commodity inventories often in illiquid mar-
kets;
(v) The monitoring of PLS arrangements cannot easily be standardised; and
(vi) Potential costs and risk of monitoring equity-type contracts and the associated
legal risk.
People risk and the scarcity of qualified human resources is the most striking
weakness of the whole industry (Brown et al., 2007). In fact, scarcity of talent
might impede, for a while, the growth dynamics of Islamic banks. There is a clear,
identifiable and sometimes quantifiable shortage of skilled managers, officers and
clerks in the Shari’ah-compliant financial universe. Not only is the industry grow-
ing fast, triggering pressure on existing staff to absorb increasing volumes, but a
number of new entrants are also entering the arena: markets like Bahrain, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Malaysia and Singapore, among others, have witnessed
the incorporation of a large number of new IFIs announcing authorised capital of

--- Página 108 ---
92
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
unprecedented size. Newcomers must be staffed and newly trained employees are
scarce because education, training and experience take time to build exploitable
competences (Mahlknecht, 2009). The easiest and most effective way to quickly
staff freshly instituted organisations is to acquire them from existing banks, cre-
ating visible pressure on the labour market in the entire industry. Risks including
management discontinuity, excessive growth of personnel expenses, innovation
disincentives and lack of experienced staff might all damage an IFI’s capacity to
build competitive advantages, and ultimately its market position, reputation and
business model.
On a positive note, several professional qualifications in Islamic finance have
been created in different regions over the last few years. This should ease the pres-
sure on the industry in the medium term. It is necessary to create a pool of highly
qualified professionals with in-depth knowledge of not only the Shari’ah and its
objectives, but also Islamic and conventional finance and financial engineering.
Directors and senior management of Islamic banks too should be required to attend
such courses.
Technology risk is another type of operational risk that is specifically high
for Islamic banks. It is associated with the use of software and telecommunica-
tions systems that are not tailored specifically to the needs of Islamic banks. Like
any other business, Islamic banks require bespoke software; given the nature of
business the computer software available in the market for conventional banks
may not be appropriate for IFIs. Compliance with Shari’ah rules requires manage-
ment information systems that are scarce and expensive to develop. The currently
available systems are less robust than those in conventional banks; they are either
bespoke systems or ones that have been modified to handle Islamic products.
There are few systems that have been specifically designed for the use of Islamic
banks and are in widespread use (Brown et al., 2007). Santhosh Bhat, one of the
interviewees for this research but whose interview was not included in the final
sample, stated that “the most critical features of any Islamic banking software is
the automation of profit pooling, which is the calculation of weighting and distri-
bution of profit to the depositors according to the Shari’ah-compliant distribution
method”. The latest systems and technologies as used in conventional banks are
often not used by Islamic banks.
Documentation risk is higher for Islamic banks than for conventional banks
partly as a result of the lack of standardisation in the contracts and also because any
deficiencies in the documentation could make the contract unenforceable (Moore,
2009).
In short, given the newness of Islamic banks and their unique business model,
operational risk can be acute in these institutions. Therefore, the three methods of
measuring operational risk proposed by the Basel II Accord have to be adapted
considerably if they are to be applied to Islamic banks. This is explored in detail
in Chapter 4.

--- Página 109 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
93
FURTHER RISK AREAS SPECIFIC TO ISLAMIC
BANKS
In addition to the traditional risk that Islamic banks share with their conventional
counterparts as financial intermediaries, Islamic banks are also exposed to several
risks that are very specific to their business model. Such specific risks are equally
important and stem from the nature of their contracts, business environment, com-
petition and certain prevailing practices.
Displaced Commercial Risk
As discussed in the section ‘Asset–Liability Management’, Displaced Commercial
Risk is a risk unique to Islamic banks that stems from their ALM practices.
Shari’ah Non-Compliance Risk
Shari’ah non-compliance risk is related to the structure and functioning of
Shari’ah boards at the institutional and systemic level. This risk could be of four
types, which are strongly correlated and linked:
Lack of standardisation risk
The Shari’ah is subject to interpretation, par-
ticularly in the field of economic and financial transactions known as the fiqh
al-muaamalat. Therefore, from one market to another, from one school of thought
(madhab) to another, and even from one Shari’ah scholar to another, the fine line
between what is considered lawful at any point in time and what is not considered
lawful can be so thin that fatawa may differ substantially. This difference in the
interpretation of Shari’ah rules results in differences in financial reporting, audit-
ing and accounting treatment. For instance, while some Shari’ah scholars consider
the terms of a murabahah or istisna’a contract to be binding on the buyer, others
argue that the buyer has the option to decline even after placing an order and pay-
ing the commitment fee, explains Al-Ghamrawy (2010), Managing Director at Al
Baraka Bank-Egypt and one of the interviewees for this research. Differing atti-
tudes toward hedging techniques such as forwards, futures and options provide
another example of a large divergence of opinion that does not benefit the industry
(IFSB, 2007).
These differences can be partly attributed to the presence of the Shari’ah
board, which governs and guides the banks regarding the conduct of Islamic bank-
ing. The Shari’ah board interprets various products and situations based on the
Qur’an, Sunnah and fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence). There are four classical schools
of Islamic thought, namely Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi’i and Hanbali, which have spe-
cific presences in different parts of the world, and hence the Shari’ah rulings
differ based on the different schools. China and Turkey are more influenced by
the Hanafi; in a large part of Africa Maliki is followed; Indonesia and Malaysia

--- Página 110 ---
94
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
have large numbers of followers of the Shafi’i school; and Hanbali appears to be
followed in Saudi Arabia (Akkizidis and Khandelwal, 2007). These four schools
represent most of the commonly accepted rulings of Islamic jurisprudence. The
interpretations of Shari’ah scholars can be based on one or more schools of though
and hence can have impact on the conduct of the Islamic banking.
Multiple factors are considered before the Shari’ah board provides a ruling
on a particular case. This multiplicity of methods of financing has been a prime
reason for the lack of standardisation of products, processes and policies. It did
not hamper the growth and development of Islamic banking, but has resulted
in some confusion among the followers of Islamic banking. This has direct
effect on risk management for Islamic banking. Also, due to the multiplicity of
interpretations of situations, progress in developing specific legislation for Islamic
banking has been slow. Malaysia, Pakistan and Bahrain have developed specific
legislation dealing with Islamic banking, whereas most of the other countries
offering Islamic banking are using conventional banking legislation with some
modifications for Islamic banking along with Shari’ah rulings (Akkizidis and
Khandelwal, 2007).
This variation is not only time-consuming and costly but it also leads to
confusion about what Islamic banking really encompasses and therefore hinders
its widespread acceptance. It also makes it difficult for regulators – especially in
non-Muslim countries – to understand the idea of Islamic banking. Consequently,
regulators tend to be restrictive in granting licences for Islamic banks. The same
applies to investors and customers, who sometimes find themselves reluctant
to invest in Islamic banks because of their confusion about the concept and its
specific products.
The curious case of Investment Dar Company (‘TID’) v. Blom Development
Bank may have some significant implications for the Islamic finance industry.
Blom Development Bank of Lebanon had placed various ‘funds’ with TID of
Kuwait, pursuant to a wakala arrangement. TID became distressed during the
course of 2008/09 with the onset of the credit crunch and announced a restruc-
turing. In May 2009, it defaulted on the profit/coupon of its USD 100 million
sukuk issue, and since then there has been much confusion regarding the status
and progress of the restructuring. TID then argued that the previously executed
wakala arrangements with Blom Development Bank did not actually comply
with Shari’ah principles; hence, all related agreements should therefore be
considered ultra vires (or void). The court issued a summary judgment ordering
payment of the capital amount but not the anticipated profit required, which
necessitated consideration at a full trial. Chowdhury (2010) hence states that
“It is widely felt that the application of Shari’ah compliance as a commercial and
defensive legal tool undermines the credibility and ethical ethos that underpins
Islamic finance.”

--- Página 111 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
95
Shari’ah arbitrage risk
The competitive dynamics of IFIs, together with
lack of standardisation, could enhance Shari’ah arbitrage, itself a component of
Shari’ah-compliance risk. IFIs compete head on with conventional banks, but
they also position themselves as contenders within the Islamic financial industry,
sometimes internationally, if not globally. The different Shari’ah interpretations
give rise to Shari’ah arbitrage, which is the risk of resort to the most liberal
interpretation of financial Islam for business purposes (Visser, 2009). Therefore,
Muslim investors and originators might be tempted by Shari’ah arbitrage.
Shari’ah arbitrage might also lead an IFI to crowd itself out of the market because
it may not be considered sufficiently Shari’ah-compliant by its constituency,
the final decision-making body as to Shari’ah compliance, which is beyond the
reach of any fatwa. This could be damaging from a macro-industrial perspective,
should the whole Islamic financial industry be overly heterogeneous to the point
where fragmentation becomes unavoidable and durable (Yaccubi, 2010).
Non-compliance risk
Chowdhury (2010) argues that the relationship between
an Islamic bank and its customers is not only that of an agent and principal; it
is also based on implicit trust that the bank will respect the desires of its cus-
tomers to comply fully with Shari’ah. This relationship is what really distinguishes
Islamic banks from their conventional counterparts and it is the sole justifica-
tion of their existence. If the bank is unable to maintain this trust, by not being
Shari’ah-compliant, it risks losing the confidence of its customers. This could
severely damage the creditworthiness of an IFI. For instance, Muslim depositors
might withdraw their funds from a bank, triggering a liquidity crisis. Retail cus-
tomers that are mainly attracted by the Islamic nature of a bank might also stop
requesting loans from this institution, triggering a downturn in profitability.
Wilson (2002) argues that what distinguishes IFIs from their conventional
counterparts is not only the unique products they have on offer but also the com-
monality of their client base, who all have been attracted to IFIs because they
provide products compatible with Shari’ah, which the clients themselves respect
and believe in. The high level of trust between IFIs and their clients reduces the
risks of moral hazard. Therefore, IFIs should ensure transparency in compliance
Shari’ah and place this issue at the top of their priorities.
Shortfall of scholars
This is an industry-related rather than an organisation-
specific risk. There are few Shari’ah experts in commercial law and finance law.
Most scholars who go on to specialise as academics do so in fields such as the-
ology or history, while those who specialise in practical subjects become experts
on the laws of zakah, marriage and divorce, or inheritance (Selvam, 2008). The
industry is no longer able to produce qualified scholars at the required rate, par-
ticularly due to the long and arduous process involved, which includes learning

--- Página 112 ---
96
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
the finer points of modern capital markets. It could take up to anywhere between
10 and 15 years for a person to qualify as a Shari’ah scholar and sign off on a
fatwa due to the extensive training and guidance required to become an estab-
lished scholar, according to Chowdhury (2010). He also stated, “There are only
a few scholars who combine knowledge of the Shari’ah with an understanding
of the working of modern finance . . . I personally know several scholars who
have written advanced academic dissertations on subjects dealing with the classi-
cal jurisprudence of commerce and transacting.” However, as Sheikh Yusuf Talal
DeLorenzo (cited by Selvam, 2008) states “their knowledge is theoretical, these
scholars are of no practical use to modern Islamic finance.”
Another obstacle is mastering the language of communication needed in the
financial realm. Shari’ah scholars need to be conversant in both Arabic, the lan-
guage of the Shari’ah, and English, the main language of modern finance. “Most
scholars are not fluent in English and the Islamic finance industry in dominated in
the English language at the moment,” adds Kailani (2010), another interviewee.
The strategy consultant firm Funds@Work (2009) carried out research on the
landscape of Shari’ah scholars. The results, as depicted in Figure 3.7, show that
among 271 organisations researched (including banks, mutual funds, insurance
companies and private equity funds), there were 180 scholars with 956 positions;
this remains an important challenge with various risk implications. If this shortage
of Shari’ah scholars is not reversed, Islamic finance may not grow as quickly as
it could.
It should also be noted that the shortage of skills applies not only at the schol-
arly level, but also in the wider industry as discussed earlier.
Reputational Risk
It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to destroy it.
—Warren Buffet as quoted in Askari et al. (2009)
Historically, reputational risk used to be considered a subset of operational
risk; however, convincing arguments have been put forth over time to distinguish
reputational risk from operational risk and to highlight the sole significance of
the former. According to Askari et al. (2009), a survey conducted by Pricewater-
houseCooper (PwC) in early 2004, showed that of 1400 CEOs taking part in the
study 35% identified reputational risk as either ‘one of the biggest threats’ (10%)
or ‘a significant threat’ (25%) to their business growth prospects. Reputational
risk is the most critical risk for IFIs, because the total loss caused by reputa-
tional damage can well extend beyond the bank’s liquidation value and affect the
whole industry for generations, regionally, internationally and even globally. Once
a bank’s reputations has been damaged or tainted, restoring market confidence

--- Página 113 ---
66.8%
23.6%
6.3%3.3%
64
51
44
37
17
16
9
6
5
4
3
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
Lebanon
Germany
Switzerland
Australia
Sri Lanka
Jordan
Japan
Netherlands
South Africa
Syria
Tunisia
Egypt
India
Kuwait
UK
US
Other countries
271
companies
% distribution by country:
Shari’ah scholars’ involvement in boards and beyond
Number of companies including Shari’ah scholars in boards & other operations
90 companies involving Shari’ah scholars in their
board & other operations are located in Kuwait, UK and US. 
33.2% of companies involving Shari’ah scholars
in their board & other operations are located in
Kuwait, UK and US. 
Kuwait
Bahrain
UAE
KSA
UK
Qatar
US
Pakistan
Malaysia
FIGURE 3.7
Shari’ah scholars’ involvement in boards and beyond
Source: Authors’ analysis based on figures provided by Funds@Work (2009:4)
97

--- Página 114 ---
98
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
is extremely challenging. Nevertheless, all Islamic banks in a given market are
exposed to such risk. Close collaboration among financial institutions, standardisa-
tion of contracts and practices, self-examination, investing in customer awareness,
and establishment of industry associations are some of the steps needed to miti-
gate reputational risk. “Reputational risk is certainly a major issue for a growing
industry like Islamic banking and finance” said Richard Thomas (2009), Managing
Director of Global Securities House.
Reputational risk for IFIs can occur at different levels. First, as a matter of
image, loan foreclosure and security realisation, described as a relative strength of
Islamic banks, are double-edged swords. Taking into account the expected take-off
in mortgage lending especially in the GCC countries, the question of loan foreclo-
sure and collateral seizing may be critical going forward. An IFI can hardly feel
comfortable in the case of a Muslim family defaulting on the financial obligation
pertaining to its primary residential property. In a number of jurisdictions, such a
scenario would immediately trigger legal action leading the (conventional) bank to
take full ownership of the collateralised property, at the expense of the borrower,
who would be forced to relocate to an alternative, often smaller, home. According
to Smith (2010), one of the interviewees for this research, in the context of the
Muslim societies where IFIs are most active, it would be quite damaging for the
IFI’s ‘ethical’ reputation to leave a Muslim family homeless for the sake of profit,
and then to sell the seized property post-foreclosure on the secondary market, since
real estate Islamic finance presents itself as an ethical alternative to conventional
banking. Therefore, should mortgage financing pick up in a number of Islamic
jurisdictions, reputational risk management would call for a number of mitigating
mechanisms like mutual takaful attached to housing loans.
Reputational risk can also arise from the fact that Islamic finance is a relatively
young industry, and a single failed institution could trigger negative publicity for
other banks in the industry, affecting their market share, profitability and liquidity.
For example, Islamic Bank of Britain (IBB) has been suffering since its incep-
tion in 2004 from the negative publicity about Islamic banking among British
customers caused by the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce Interna-
tional (BCCI) in 1991 and the withdrawal of Al Baraka Bank from the UK market
in 1993.1 It took IBB’s management tremendous effort to overcome the damage
caused to trust in Islamic banking in the Western world.
More broadly, reputational risk might stem from the misconception that
IFIs, through zakat and other charitable donations, might be close to violent
militant groups. In order to avoid even the perception of such involvement, IFIs,
particularly in the aftermath of 9/11, have materially invested in know-your-
customers (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) systems in order to enhance
their processes and procedures for the early detection and reporting of doubt-
ful and fraudulent transactions, sometimes at a heavy cost. For example, in

--- Página 115 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
99
2006 there was US state enforcement action against Doha Bank’s Islamic banking
arm in its New York branch relating to insufficient anti-money-laundering
controls and systems. In April 2009, Doha Bank paid a fine of USD 5 million,
which was imposed by two US government agencies: the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The
post 9/11 environment necessitates the attention of IFIs to reputational risk due to
the increased scrutiny and regulations to which they are subject.
Finally, if an Islamic bank is viewed as non-Shari’ah-compliant this could
break the trust of its retail, corporate and even money market customers. This
could trigger a liquidity crisis as devout Muslim depositors might withdraw their
funds.
Askari et al. (2009) highlight that, although there has not been a major failure
of an Islamic bank in more than 30 years, there have been instances of failures
of financial institutions claiming to offer Islamic financial products, for example,
Ihlas Finans of Turkey in early 2001, The Islamic Bank of South Africa in 1997,
and Islamic investment companies in Egypt in the 1980s.
Accounting Standards
In a relatively immature and fragmented Islamic banking industry, there is a
need to establish an adequate infrastructure, including the setting up of uniform
accounting standards. Until recently, IFIs had developed their own standards in
cooperation with their domestic regulators. However, this resulted in a lack of
comparability between the financial statements of different institutions in differ-
ent countries. The need is now widely recognised to provide users of financial
statements with more meaningful, transparent and comparable information on the
financial performance of the reporting entity.
AAOIFI has made some progress in developing a level playing field among
Islamic banks, preparing a common set of accounting standards and developing
consistent auditing standards and banking practices for those institutions, as well
as starting to create a benchmark for Shari’ah compliance. Accounting standards
issued to date reflect the adoption of conventional accounting practice, amended to
reflect the nature of Islamic banking and incorporating compliance with Shari’ah
doctrines (Mahlknecht, 2009).
AAOIFI and IFSB have played pioneering roles in designing key accounting,
risk management, auditing and reporting standards for IFIs. They have comple-
mented these with Shari’ah standards for contracts and governance, and have built
awareness of major risk and prudential issues in Islamic finance. However, the pace
of adoption of standards is slow. Also, considerable challenges remain to upgrade
the standards and develop new ones in order to support the rapid innovations in the
industry, and to align the accounting and auditing standards more closely with the

--- Página 116 ---
100
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
evolving regulatory standards. AAOIFI and IFSB standards are still under refine-
ment and are not mandatory; and hence are still not used by several IFIs.
Eglinton (2010), Director of Banking and Capital Markets at Ernest &
Young and one of the interviewees for this research, adds that consistency is
of great importance and significantly different treatments of the same item can
and do occur; this makes it difficult and potential confusion arises relating to
the treatment of investment accounts. Should these be on or off balance sheet?
Are they with or without recourse? Differing treatment of investment accounts
can have significant implications for capital adequacy calculations and liquidity
requirements. Income recognition (cash or accrual) at inception, receipt or ulti-
mate repayment and expense recognition (deducted from profit apportionment)
are also important issues as different treatments can have a significant impact on
reported profitability.
Despite AAOIFI’s efforts, its standards are not mandatory because of the over-
riding need to comply with domestic regulatory requirements, with the exception
of a handful of countries, such as Bahrain and Sudan, where banking supervisors
require Islamic banks to comply with the AAOIFI standards.
Most countries use the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or
US GAAP standards for their accounting, or some close local adaptation. These
have limitations for good transparency of the operations of Islamic institutions
and may lead to very poor disclosure of important aspects of their operations.
However, many regulators believe that they need one set of accounting rules to be
applied by all banks in their jurisdiction and so they are reluctant to depart from
this practice.
AAOIFI has, however, continued working closely with regulators and the
International Accounting Standards Committee in order to encourage adoption of
its standards. An increasing number of institutions produce financial statements
that conform to both IFRS and AAOIFI standards (Moore, 2009). Eglinton (2010)
adds that “This may be the way to go, especially as AAOIFI has never wanted to
reinvent the wheel but has stated that its standards should be used to give more
appropriate presentation only when IFRS is not suitable.”
Fiduciary Risk
Fiduciary risk is derived directly from the PLS feature of Islamic finance, and
is closely interlinked with corporate governance risk. AAOIFI defines fiduciary
risk as “being legally liable for a breach of the investment contract either for
non-compliance with Shari’ah rules or for mismanagement of investors’ funds”
(Moore, 2009). As fiduciary agents, IFIs are expected to act in the best interests

--- Página 117 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
101
of investors, depositors and shareholders. If and when these objectives diverge
from the actions of the bank, the bank is exposed to fiduciary risk.
Fiduciary risk can lead to dire consequences. First, it can cause reputational
risk, creating panic among depositors, who may rush to withdraw their funds.
Second, it may require the IFI to pay a penalty or compensation, which may result
in a financial loss. Third, it can have a negative impact on the market price of
shareholders’ equity. Fourth, it can affect the bank’s cost of and access to liquid-
ity. Finally, it may lead to insolvency if the IFI is unable to meet the demands of
current IAHs (Greuning and Iqbal, 2008).
In this context, information disclosure facilitates market discipline and
enables different stakeholders to protect their own interests by allowing deposi-
tors to withdraw their funds, shareholders to sell their shares, and regulators to
take necessary actions in case of mismanagement or misconduct (Greuning and
Iqbal, 2008).
In its Exposure Draft on Risk Management, the IFSB gave some examples of
how fiduciary risks may arise; these do not appear in the final standard but give a
useful indication of the sort of risks that can arise (Moore, 2009):
(i) A critical aspect of IFIs’ activities relates to the potentially large availability
of funds available by current account holders, whereby, as a result of the inap-
propriate management decision, IFIs may increase disproportionately their
investment portfolios’ returns by excessively leveraging these funds without
due regard to risks arising from sudden and unexpectedly high levels of with-
drawals from current accounts.
(ii) Where IFIs manage and invest various funds in longer-term investment
projects, investment funds received over a more prolonged period may
be commingled inappropriately. For example, if funds provided by more
longstanding investors are invested in a troubled project, there is a risk that
the IFI could use other IAH funds received later on to invest in the same
project in the hope that the project may be salvaged. Distortions may arise
when the IFI reports an attractive return to longer standing fund providers
when they are in fact being paid out of funds paid in by more recent investors.
(iii) The reinvestment of profits (rather than their distribution to investors) may
give rise to unfair advantages to the IFI, which may thereby extend the period
of a poorly performing investment. This may unfairly increase the exposure
of incoming IAHs to losses, which may have already existed prior to their
investment.
(iv) The risk of conflicts of interest exists where poorly performing assets and/or
restructured assets of the IFI may be transferred by the IFI’s management
from on balance sheet to off balance sheet accounts where the restricted IAH

--- Página 118 ---
102
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
would bear the risk of loss. Such misapplications of funds could result in
the investment risk being removed from the IFI’s balance sheet but, based
on an agency contract, the IFI may earn fees inappropriately on the invest-
ment management and would not share in any eventual losses recorded after
the transfer.
(v) When purchasing assets at a very low price, IFIs may ‘park’ them in a sub-
sidiary or related company and, when the opportunity arises, sell them to the
IAH at a higher price.
(vi) Other internal and operational issues may not be directly related to IAHs’
investments but may give rise to exposure to losses for IAHs. For example,
the risks derived from such elements as an excessive allocation of expenses
and the hiring of less experienced staff affect the quality of investment per-
formance and oversight.
Moore (2009) argues that these indicate some of the ways in which a less than
scrupulous management could manipulate returns to suit their purposes. There
appear to be many ways management might conceal their errors, and lack of trans-
parency means that their actions would be hard to discover.
Corporate Governance Risk
Corporate governance has a particular importance for Islamic banks because of the
unique nature of their stakeholders. All banks, as a result of their role in national
and local economies and financial systems, have a broader group of stakeholders
than other institutions have. But in the case of IFIs, the group is even wider as
PSIA holders and Shari’ah boards must be added (Moore, 2009).
Deposits in conventional banks are, by definition, capital protected. Depos-
itors also often have the comfort of deposit insurance schemes and the comfort
that banks can turn to the lender of last resort to fend off any temporary problems.
Regulators and supervisors do not want to see depositors lose money as it could
have dire consequences for the whole financial system. However, the same pro-
tection is not offered to PSIA holders, particularly unrestricted PSIAs. Here, not
only do the account holders have no say in how their money is invested, it is often
also commingled with the bank’s own funds. It is easy to see that situations could
arise where there is a conflict of interest between shareholders and PSIA holders,
while management may have a third agenda. This might be in the area of risk
appetite or in the share of profits that would be allocated to the different parties.
While shareholders can make their wishes heard through the board of directors,
PSIA holders have no such voice. Assets can be transferred between unrestricted
PSIAs, shareholders’ equity and other funds; and as disclosure requirements
have stood, only management need to know what happened or why it happened
(Moore, 2009).

--- Página 119 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
103
The IFSB produced its standard on corporate governance in December 2006.
One of its proposals is that each IFI should establish a governance committee of
its board, one of whose responsibilities should be to ensure that the interests of its
PSIA holders are looked after (IFSB, 2006). In addition, AAOIFI has set gover-
nance standards for Islamic institutions that cover the appointment, composition
and responsibilities of the Shari’ah board, one of which is to protect the interests
of depositors and PSIA holders (Kailani, 2010). As such, this board is a critical
governance body within the bank.
It has been suggested by many that the governance process would be sig-
nificantly enhanced by allowing PSIA holders some representation on the board
of directors and by an improvement in the transparency of financial reporting.
Another proposal that has been put into practice by the Al Baraka Group is to
have a separate investors’ committee (Moore, 2009). However, the practicality of
both proposals is questionable.
Corporate governance practices can have a material impact on the bank’s risk
profile, particularly in countries where such practices are weak. Islamic banks do
not generally have robust corporate governance frameworks in place. However, in
this they are no different from some of their local conventional peers. For instance,
family ownership/majority ownership by a core shareholder group is seen in both
segments of an Islamic country’s banking system. Their prevalence weakens the
rights of minority shareholders, may lead to unmerited appointments or promotion
of family members, and could give rise to conflicts of interest between differ-
ent stakeholders. The lack of genuinely independent directors is a shortcoming of
emerging markets in general and impairs a board’s ability to maintain accountabil-
ity and provide strategic guidance.
The exposure of big family businesses is among the most important risks for
Islamic banks and the GCC business environment in general. Saudi Arabia is a
clear example: Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers owes money to more than
100 banks. This family-owned company owned a Bahraini bank, the International
Banking Corporation (TIBC), which defaulted on USD 2.2 billion of debt in early
May 2009. In addition, Algosaibi had defaulted on some USD 1 billion of foreign
exchange, trade finance and swap agreements, and was seeking restructuring of
all its group obligations, which are reported to include about USD 2.5 billion
owed to Saudi banks and hundreds of millions of dollars owed elsewhere. Closely
connected with family ties, the Saad Group and its subsidiary Awal Bank, owned
by Maan Al Sanea, were also restructuring debt: the Group owes banks at least
USD 5.5 billion. The ripples from the Saad and Algosaibi defaults also extend
into international waters, weakly in concrete financial terms but perhaps more
lastingly in terms of sentiment. Both groups borrowed from foreign banks:
Algosaibi took out a USD 700 million syndicated loan in May 2007 arranged by
BNP Paribas and WestLB, while a USD 150 million borrowing in 2006 by Awal

--- Página 120 ---
104
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
was arranged by Arab Bank, Gulf International Bank and Hypovereinsbank. The
Financial Times reported on 11 June 2009 that several of the international banks
with a relationship with Saad and Mr Al Sanea had closed down credit lines. It is
hard to find an Islamic bank in the GCC or Europe without significant exposure to
these entities. According to Damak (2010), who was interviewed for this research,
gross loan exposure within the GCC to the Saad and Algosaibi Groups amounts
to USD 9.6 billion for 30 banks in the six GCC countries. Such developments
and incidents have resulted in questioning of the nature of corporate governance,
if any, in the Middle East, as the two conglomerates were controlled by family
members. This Saudi banking scandal is, on one level, a family affair.
The GCC Board Directors Institute, a Dubai-based non-profit that seeks to
improve corporate governance standards, issued a report in 2009 highlighting the
need for corporate governance reform in the six GCC member states – Bahrain,
Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The report Building Better
Boards notes that only 55% of GCC companies disclose the main executive posi-
tions of board members, compared with 100% in Europe, and only 32% of com-
panies disclose other positions held by board members, compared with 97% in
Europe. It urges a reduction in the number of boards on which directors serve; the
appointment of strong audit, nomination and remuneration committees; efforts to
attract more international directors to the boards of Gulf companies; and the pro-
motion of greater corporate transparency (Townsend, 2009).
Thus, corporate governance risk in the GCC, where most Islamic banks
reside, has become publicly exposed. Poor corporate governance imposes heavy
costs. The need for additional efforts toward improved corporate transparency
is paramount. As long as Gulf companies and banks restricted their activities
largely within the region, there was little pressure to change those opaque
practices. However, growing links with international markets and financial
institutions are generating greater demands for reform. Changing corporate
practices, however, will not be easy. Governance reform needs to be addressed
against the cultural backdrop in the Gulf, which places great emphasis on
reputation and discretion. Nevertheless, in recent years Bahrain, Dubai and
Qatar have created financial centres that promote high standards of regulation
and corporate disclosure, including the requirement to publish regular results
under IFRS.
Regulatory and Tax Issues
As the nature of their operations is different, IFIs face different problems in
respect of legal, regulatory and taxation rules. In order to foster stability in Islamic
banking, there is a need to develop uniform regulatory and transparency standards
that are tailored to the specific characteristics of Islamic financial products and
institutions. This task, while taking into consideration the financial environment in

--- Página 121 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
105
each country, also needs adaptation of the international standards, core principles
and good practices to the specific needs of IFIs. For example, IFIs have to purchase
assets for onward sale or lease to their clients. As such, the levy of taxation and fees
on their purchases leads to an uneven playing field for them compared with their
conventional counterparts. To avoid such costs, IFIs in some jurisdictions resort
to practices creating doubts with respect to Shari’ah compliance (Ayub, 2007).
Some regulations need to be amended before an Islamic bank can operate
within a particular economy; an example is stamp duties in mortgaging transac-
tions in Western markets. Since the Islamic bank purchases a product on behalf
of a client and then resells it, double stamp duties should not be charged in such
circumstances. Regulators in countries where both systems operate side by side
should recognise the need to set up flexible regulatory and tax frameworks that
could facilitate banking operations in line with the Shari’ah principles. Flexibili-
ties granted by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in Britain to accommodate
the specific needs of Islamic banking are a welcome move; it is hoped that the pro-
cess of adaptation of laws will continue in order to make London an international
hub for the Islamic finance industry in coming years.
Legal Risk
Given the different nature of financial contracts, Islamic banks face risks related to
their documentation and enforcement. As there are no standard forms of contracts
for various financial instruments, Islamic banks prepare documentation accord-
ing to their understanding of the Shari’ah, the local laws and their needs and
concerns. Lack of standardised contracts along with the fact that there are no liti-
gation systems to resolve problems associated with enforceability of contracts by
the counterparty increases the legal risks associated with the Islamic contractual
agreements (Khan and Ahmed, 2001).
There are special concerns for Islamic banks over the enforceability of
contracts. Conventional banks use well-established products for which standard
documentation has been developed over the years that is accepted globally. This
gives comfort, despite any limitations that may exist in the legal systems of the
countries where the banks operate. This is not the case for Islamic products as yet.
If problems arise and cases go to court, there is considerable uncertainty as to the
court’s decision (Moore, 2009).
Furthermore, the legal environment in some Islamic countries tends to be
ambiguous and has never been tested, which constrains the ability to enforce
a contract, recover bad debts or realise collateral. For example, Chowdhury
(2010) states that “in the GCC, the rule of precedent does not apply to court
cases, and insolvency rules have not been tested before”. Dey and Holder (2008)
explain that courts in the UAE and Saudi Arabia will generally not honour

--- Página 122 ---
106
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
any provisions of a foreign legal system which are contrary to Shari’ah, public
order, morals or any mandatory provisions of the local law.
A number of recent court decisions have proven that when it comes to resolv-
ing disputes arising from Islamic finance contracts, Shari’ah rules and principles
do not necessarily apply. This is simply because, most often, the issues in dispute
are not Shari’ah in nature, but rather specific to the civil and commercial rights
and obligations as contracted by the parties. The precedent here is the case of
Shamil Bank of Bahrain v. Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd in 2004, when the Court
of Appeal ruled that it was not possible for the case to be considered based on prin-
ciples of Shari’ah law (HMCS, 2009). There were two main reasons. First, there
is no provision for the choice or application of a non-national system of law, such
as Shari’ah. Second, because the application of Shari’ah principles was a matter
of debate, even in a Muslim country.
To mitigate this risk, contracts have to be written very carefully to minimise
potential disputes and state the governing law. At present, most Islamic finance
contracts are governed by English law, and a few under New York law. There
are also advantages in standardisation of documentation. However, local courts
may not enforce an English legal judgment without re-examining the merits of
the claim and may not recognise English law as the law of the contract, or only
to the extent that it is not incompatible with local law and public policy. This
would mean that the local courts could seek to reinterpret documents governed
by English law as if they were governed by local law. They could therefore give
effect to the documents in a manner not intended by the parties (Miller, 2008).
For instance, around 110 banks from all over the world are currently struggling
in courts trying to retrieve their money from the defaulting Ahmed Hamad Algo-
saibi & Brothers Group and the Golden Belt sukuk issued by Saad Group in Saudi
Arabia. The ongoing litigation has proved that the ability to enforce English judg-
ments in Saudi Arabia is almost non-existent, and that liquidation rules in the GCC
are lagging behind.
Short Track Record
Modern Islamic banking has been in existence for only three decades and many
products are less than a decade old. This is in addition to the fact that most Islamic
banks are active in the developing world where transparency, corporate governance
and risk management at large are still work in progress, or non-existent.
RISK CATEGORIES ARE ENTANGLED
In a large number of Islamic finance contracts it is often challenging to distinguish
between risks because risk categories of a different nature are entangled, along

--- Página 123 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
107
with the changing relationship of parties during the lifetime of the contract. Also,
the nature of risks contained in Islamic instruments is likely to change significantly
over time.
This is referred to as ‘conglomeration of risks’, whereby each mode of finance
carries various risks bundled together (Khan, 2004). For example, in an ijarah con-
tract, which resembles a financial lease, the IFI buys an asset that is subsequently
leased or rented to a customer against periodic rental payments. The IFI remains
the owner of the leased asset throughout the duration of the lease contract, leav-
ing the bank exposed to the residual value of the asset at maturity or should the
lessee be willing to terminate the ijarah relationship prior to maturity. The man-
agement of leased assets’ residual value is a feature that differs materially from
credit risk management and assumes access to robust and reliable market data as
to asset-price volatility and behaviour across economic cycles and business con-
ditions; all the more so as IFIs tend to run a portfolio of asset inventories that they
buy and then sell or lease (FRSGlobal, 2009).
Inventory management is another aspect that separates IFIs, from a risk
management perspective, from their conventional peers. Similar issues arise
when it comes to diminishing musharakah contracts (co-ownership contracts
whereby the customer’s ownership share in a financed asset increases as principal
is incrementally repaid to the bank). Should the customer default, the IFI’s share
in the financed asset is used as collateral, the value of which might be volatile and
naturally subject to scrutiny and management independently of the customer’s
perceived creditworthiness (Moody’s, 2009a).
In addition, given trading-based instruments and equity financing, there are
significant market risks along with credit risk in the banking book of Islamic banks.
For example, trade-based contracts (murabahah, salam and istisna’a) and ijarah
are exposed to both credit and market risks. During the transaction period of a
salam contract the bank is exposed to credit risk, and at the conclusion of the
contract it is exposed to commodity price risk, the liquidity risk of its conversion
into cash, the operational risk of its storage and movement, etc. (Ahmed and Khan,
2007).
RISK MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN SUKUK
Sukuk present specific market and credit risks, particularly with regard to pricing,
delays in scheduled payments, events of default, asset protection, structural issues
and reporting standards. The risk and return in sukuk are linked to the underlying
assets. The key distinction when looking at sukuk from a risk-management
perspective is whether they are asset-backed or asset-based via a repurchase
undertaking. In other words, do sukuk holders rely on the assets themselves or on

--- Página 124 ---
108
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
the ultimate originator for repayment? Due to the nature of sukuk, all transactions
are likely to involve a set of underlying assets. Both parties – the issuer and the
investors – share the risks in the transaction. Where investors enjoy asset-backing,
they benefit from some form of security or lien over the assets, and are therefore
in a preferential position over other, unsecured creditors. In other words, in the
event that the issuer were to default or become insolvent, the sukuk holders would
be able to recover their exposure by taking control of and ultimately realising the
value from the underlying asset(s) (Moody’s, 2008a). There have been a couple
of notable issues where the assets were ‘truly’ sold, like Tamweel and Sorouh
PJSC, both UAE transactions. They still account for the minority of overall global
sukuk issuance.
Where the transaction is asset-based (which has been the case for the vast
majority of sukuk so far), the originator undertakes to repurchase the assets from
the issuer at maturity of the sukuk, or upon a pre-defined early termination event,
for an amount equal to the principal repayment. In such a repurchase undertaking,
the true market value of the underlying asset (or asset portfolio) is irrelevant to the
sukuk holders, as the amount is defined to be equivalent to the notes. In this case,
investors in sukuk rely wholly on the originator’s creditworthiness for repayment.
Box 3.7 depicts the practical case of default of East Cameron Partners (ECP) sukuk
and the legal complication associated with recovering the assets by investors. This
class of sukuk is identical to unsecured lending from a risk perspective. The vast
majority of sukuk structures to date fall into this category; they do not aim to
complete an off balance sheet transfer of the assets from the originator. In this
sense, from a risk profile, the investors bear similar risk to unsecured lending
(Dey and Holder, 2008), and their credit risk will be identical to a conventional
unsecured bond.
“There is no scope in the courts for such vagaries – either the investors have
a legally enforceable claim on assets or they do not. So when crunch time comes,
those investors in asset-based structures are left with nothing: no assets, no secu-
rity, just an unsecured claim in substance like a debt of the company”, explains
Engel (2010). Most sukuk are currently asset-based rather than asset-backed,
with a few exceptions. Many investors – Islamic and non-Islamic alike – simply
want a fixed-income bond, and it is this powerful investor demand that primarily
drives the shape of market. Therefore, securitisation has not really taken off in
Islamic finance. Thomas (2009) hence states, “The way forward is to revert to the
asset-backed sukuk.”
It should also be mentioned that there is no track record of sukuk enforcement
to date, and the issue of effective legal ownership of assets between a company
and its related sovereign have yet to be tested.

--- Página 125 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
109
BOX 3.7: PRACTICAL DEFAULT CASE OF ASSET-BASED SUKUK
East Cameron Asset-Backed Sukuk: Who owns the assets?
The East Cameron Partners L.P. (ECP) sukuk was relatively small one at
USD 165.67 million and was issued in July 2006. It was the first issued by a
US company and was a genuine effort at an asset-backed musharakah. It was
secured by an interest in the oil and gas royalty rights on two gas fields in
the Gulf of Mexico. On 16 October 2008, ECP (the originating company)
filed for Chapter 11 / bankruptcy in the US courts.
A sukuk enforcement event was then triggered on 3 September 2008
due to a shortfall in the stressed oil and gas reserves. As an asset-backed
structure sukuk investors already have legal rights over the oil and gas assets
but ECP requested a ruling that the transaction was not a ‘true sale’ but a
‘secured loan’. In the former, sukuk investors have sole rights to the assets;
in the latter they would lose their rights and share the assets with the other
creditors should ECP enter Chapter 7 (liquidation).
Ultimately providing asset security for investors is a legal issue that
impacts conventional and sukuk structures equally. The concept is well
tested in the US so investors’ rights should be preserved if structured
correctly. In the Middle East, legal systems are less tested and secured
sukuk are the minority. Investors in asset-based sukuk have no senior claim
or lien over the sukuk assets – but this is deliberate and clear to most parties.
Source: Based on data from Denton Wilde Sapte (2009)
Transparency is another issue with sukuk. Some of the sukuk had a huge
lack of transparency and the complexities were beyond the comprehension of
some scholars and market participants alike. The absence of disclosure and the
very weak transparency standards make a clear assessment almost impossible.
Going forward, transparency guidelines will be an important part of sukuk issue;
it will affect not only the risk management but also the pricing of the sukuk
(Abdul-Ghani, 2009).
Moreover, sukuk tend to be document intensive and relatively complex com-
pared to conventional bonds because of the underlying asset structure. They also
involve a complex relationship between Shari’ah and local (very often secular)
legal systems, and the scope for conflict is great (Miller, 2008).

--- Página 126 ---
110
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
RISK MITIGATION IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Hedging can be one of the most contentious issues in Islamic banking. Conven-
tional futures and short positions, which are often vital ingredients in risk mitiga-
tion, can be difficult to achieve under Shari’ah principles (KPMG, 2006). By the
late 1990s and early 2000s, there began discussion on the scope of financial engi-
neering and derivatives in Islamic finance. This did not receive much attention in
the literature, primarily because most of transactions were designed by lawyers
and Shari’ah experts and were executed in private by financial institutions who
did not discuss the structure in a transparent manner (Askari et al., 2009).
The unique nature of risks faced by Islamic banks, combined with the restric-
tions added by Shari’ah, makes risk mitigation for Islamic banks a difficult and
complex process. There are risks that Islamic banks, like their conventional coun-
terparts, can manage and control through appropriate risk policies and controls,
and traditional risk management tools like risk diversification, credit ratings, on
balance sheet netting, GAP analysis, stress-testing, etc. Such traditional tools do
not conflict with the Shari’ah principles. However, there are other risks that banks
cannot eliminate and that can be reduced only by transferring or selling those risks
in well-defined markets. These risks can generate unexpected losses that need cap-
ital insulation, and hedging can help to restrict the impact of unexpected loss.
Traditionally, in the conventional world risk-transfer techniques include the use of
derivatives for hedging, selling or buying of financial claims, and changing bor-
rowing terms. The challenge is, however, that most of the conventional hedging
tools do not so far comply with the Shari’ah requirements.
Until recently, it had been the opinion of most Shari’ah scholars that
hedging would fall into the category of speculation and uncertainty. In the last
few years, however, the increasing sophistication of Islamic banking products
has led some scholars to take the view that Islamic banks may be able to enter
into hedging arrangements provided that the hedging tool is in itself structured
in a Shari’ah-compliant manner, and that the trade is being entered into to
protect against a genuine exposure or liability, rather than solely for speculative
purposes. According to Khan (2010), “there is growing demand for hedging and
Shari’ah-compliant derivatives which would be used merely for hedging and not
speculation”.
In fact, hedging techniques and derivatives have drawn a lot of debate with
regard to their permissibility. There are two schools of thought when it comes to
hedging in Islamic finance: a very conservative view that prohibits hedging in all
its forms, and a more liberal view that is looking to develop Shari’ah-compliant
hedging tools. This conservative school of thought accuses derivatives of caus-
ing volatility in the market through speculation without being involved in real
economic transactions. Nonetheless, another viewpoint is that some derivatives

--- Página 127 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
111
are permissible because they involve the full transaction price and do not cause
injustice to anyone.
There are two approaches that can be adopted in the product development of
hedging tools for Islamic banks: first, through replicating a conventional product.
For example, a swap, repo or future could be used as a starting point, followed
by transformation into a Shari’ah-compliant instrument. However, this is not the
most efficient method of product development because there will be additional
costs involved to fulfil Shari’ah requirements; it is also less creative. The second
approach would be to focus on the function of the instrument and design tools
suitable for that purpose. That is what is known as financial engineering. Much
research is needed before those techniques can be adapted to Islamic banking.
But things are certainly moving in the world of Islamic hedging. In September
2006, the IIFM signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA), with an eye to developing a master
agreement for documenting privately negotiated Shari’ah-compliant derivatives
transactions (Visser, 2009). The ISDA may prove crucial in helping to lift
Islamic risk management to a point at which basic- to medium-level hedging
instruments can be introduced, as it has expertise in developing derivatives.
In addition, the IIFM is currently working on developing a Tahawwut (Hedging)
Master Agreement, which will lead the way in risk minimisation of Islamic
economic activity.
Afaq Khan, CEO Standard Chartered Saadiq and Director of IIFM, said: “Risk
management solutions are the need of the Islamic industry with particular focus
on treasury risk management. Islamic financial institutions (FIs) continue to grow
within their home markets and are increasingly adopting regional and international
expansion strategies. It is imperative that they have adequate risk management
tools to allow them to play a responsible role in their local economy and also in
their expansion plans. Tahawwut Master Agreement is another important initia-
tive from IIFM to help the industry in developing a mutually agreed standardised
document. This will make it easy for banks to trade with each other” (IIFM, 2009).
This will play a critical role in the development of risk mitigation tools in
Islamic banking.
Another challenge for Islamic hedging tools is the lack of liquidity in the sec-
ondary market. Derivatives and hedging tools in conventional banking thrive on
trading in the liquid secondary market. This is an obstacle for IFIs as liquidity is
simply not there yet. Most Islamic banks, as previously discussed, have large bal-
ance sheet mismatches, which are difficult to bridge given the lack of long-duration
liabilities.
There has been substantial development in finding ways to apply derivatives
to reduce certain risks such as currency and commodity risks: in Malaysia, for
example, some Shari’ah-compliant hedging instruments, such as profit rate swaps,

--- Página 128 ---
112
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
have been introduced. However, much of this progress remains localised with lim-
ited scope for cross-border application and further work is still needed.
Credit Derivatives
In recent years derivatives have been increasingly taking an important role not only
as instruments to mitigate risks but also as sources of income generation. They are
one of the newest tools for managing credit risks. A derivative is an instrument
whose value depends on the value of something else. In these instruments the
underlying risk of a credit is separated from the credit itself and sold to possible
investors whose individual risk profile may be such that the default risk attracts
their investment decision (Ahmed and Khan, 2007). This can be done by packag-
ing, securitisation and marketing credit risk exposures with a variety of credit risk
features. Derivatives come in many guises, for example, futures, options and swap
contracts (Davis, 2009b).
Futures are forward contracts of standardised amounts that are traded in
organised markets. Like futures, options are financial contracts of standardised
amounts that give buyers/sellers the right to buy/sell without any obligation to do
so. A swap involves agreement between two or more parties to exchange a set
of cash flows in the future according to predetermined specifications (Stremme,
2005).
Shari’ah and Islamic Derivatives
Discussion on Islamic derivative products is rare, and even what is available in the
literature is not very favourable. In general, it is argued by many Shari’ah scholars
that conventional derivatives are not compliant with the precepts of Shari’ah for
various reasons.
First, they entail gharar (uncertainty in a contract or sale in which the goods
may or may not be available or exist) and maysir (the forbidden act of gambling or
playing games of chance with the intention of making an easy or unearned profit)
and are therefore viewed in a similar way to gambling. For example, the argument
is often put forward that the huge trading volume of derivative markets is indica-
tive of extensive speculation, that the market attracts and accentuates speculative
behaviour.
A second issue that causes uneasiness among fiqh scholars is the fact that a
large portion of those trading in derivative markets have no intention of either mak-
ing or taking delivery of the underlying asset; they are based on a system of margin
calls without real movement of goods. Third, standard options, swaps and futures
contracts stem from debt and are connected to the sale and purchase of debts and
liabilities (Yaccubi, 2010). Shari’ah permits taking on risk only proportionate to

--- Página 129 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
113
the real value of the asset and not beyond the value of the real asset (Usmani, 2009).
As a result, the scope for risk-transfer techniques in Islamic finance is limited at
the present.
Derivatives also introduce a serious moral hazard to the financial matrix due
to the nature of their structures. In some situations, a bank could benefit from
the customer’s default, as the bank makes profit from the Credit Default Swaps
(CDS) it bought on this customer. In a creditor’s meeting to help the customer,
for example, this particular bank will have a hidden agenda of trying to make
the customer default. This goes against the core principles of Islamic finance that
promote the wellbeing of society.
While the OIC Fiqh Council has endorsed arbun under the condition that a
time limit is specified for the option, the concept of arbun is merely acceptable to
the extent of part payment after finalisation of the deal. Its legality as a separate
sale (i.e. bai’al-arbun), detached from real transactions, is in general not approved
by the Shari’ah scholars. Of the main schools of Islamic fiqh, only the Hanbali
considers bai’ al-arbun to be a valid legal contract (Ayub, 2007).
Kamali (2005) argues that commodity derivatives should be viewed under the
broad scope of public interest or maslahah. In addition, Chapra (2007) debates
that hedging has become an important instrument for the management of risks
in the present international economic and financial environment where there
is a great deal of instability in exchange rates as well as other market prices.
He makes a suggestion to the fiqh jurists to review their position on currency
hedging contracts. To explain his view, he assumes that a Saudi businessman
places an order for Japanese goods worth a million dollars (Rls 3.75 million) to
be delivered three months from now. If the exchange rate is 117 Yen per dollar,
and if the exchange rate remains stable, Yen 117 million will become due at the
time of delivery of goods. Since exchange rates are not stable, and consequently
if the Yen appreciates over these three months by say 5%, the Saudi importer will
have to pay Rls 3.94 million for the goods instead of Rls 3.75 million. The Saudi
businessman will therefore incur an unforeseen loss of Rls 190,000.
Although recognising that the verdict so far is that hedging is not permissible,
Chapra (2007) argues that this opinion is based on three objections: hedging
involves gharar, interest payment and receipt, and forward sale of currencies.
All three of these are prohibited by the Shari’ah. However, as far as gharar is
concerned, the objection is not valid because hedging in fact helps eliminate
gharar by enabling the importer to buy the needed foreign exchange at the current
exchange rate. The bank, which sells forward Yen, also does not get involved in
gharar because it purchases the Yen spot and invests them until the time of deliv-
ery. The bank therefore earns a return on the Yen that it invests for three months
but also loses the return it would have earned on the Riyals or the dollars that were
used to purchase the Yen. The differential in the two rates of return determines the

--- Página 130 ---
114
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
premium or the discount on the forward contract. The second objection with
regard to interest can be handled by requiring the Islamic banks to invest the
Yen or other foreign currencies purchased in a manner permitted by Islam. There
would not have been any interest, but rather profit earned on the investments. The
third objection is, of course, very serious. Chapra (2007) argues that although
Islam prohibits forward transactions in currencies, we live in a world where
instability in the foreign exchange markets has become an unavoidable reality.
It is very risky for businessmen as well as Islamic banks to carry unhedged foreign
exchange positions on their balance sheets, particularly in crisis situations when
exchange rates are very volatile. “If they do not resort to hedging, they actually get
involved in gharar more intensively. In addition, one of the important objectives
of the Shari’ah, which is the protection of wealth, is compromised unnecessarily”
(Chapra, 2007).
Engel (2010) explains that derivatives will come for Islamic banks; it is just
a matter of time. Today the closest structure is sukuk, with lease agreements and
the transfer of ownership rights, but still a lot of work is needed. The Malaysian
market is more liberal than the GCC market and the Islamic financiers in Malaysia
are working hard on developing Islamic derivatives that would have a wide accep-
tance among Shari’ah scholars. Lowe (2010) adds that “if the scholars rule all
derivatives haram, this would make hedging very difficult for Islamic banks”.
It is said that a wise man learns from others’ mistakes; Islamic banking
should learn from the painful experience of conventional banking in the over-use
of derivatives. Derivatives should be used for hedging to reduce risks rather than
for profit-generating purposes. The use should also be carefully controlled and
audited by the individual banks and regulators. Judging derivatives should be
made within context.
Islamic Hedging Tools
Islamic banking needs to move quickly toward viable hedging alternatives if it is
to sustain the growth that it has enjoyed so far. However, Islamic banks are not
using any equivalent of credit derivatives, as sale of debt is prohibited, almost
by all scholars, except in Malaysia. With the dramatic improvement in financial
innovation in Islamic finance, some endeavours have been successful in providing
that a number of contracts exist in Islamic banking that could be considered a
basis for derivative instruments within an Islamic framework. These are bai’salam,
arbun, khiyar al-shart, wa’ad and dual murabahah.
Bai’ salam Bai’ salam is similar to the conventional forward contract. However,
the major difference is that in a bai’ salam contract the buyer pays the entire
amount in full at the time the contract is initiated. The contract also stipulates
that this payment must be in the form of cash. The buyer in a contract therefore

--- Página 131 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
115
is an Islamic bank. Because there is full prepayment, this potential contract is ben-
eficial to the seller. As such, the predetermined price is normally lower than the
potential price. The price behaviour is certainly different from that of conventional
forward contracts, where the forward price is typically higher than the spot price
by the amount of the carrying cost. Credit or counterparty risks of forward and bai’
salam contracts are therefore different. In a bai’ salam contract, the risk would be
one-sided because the buyer has fully paid, and therefore only the buyer faces the
seller’s default risk as opposed to both parties facing risk, as in a forward contract.
In order to overcome the potential for default on the part of the seller, the Shari’ah
allows the buyer to require security, which may be in the form of a guarantee or
pledge (Noraini et al., 2009).
Visser (2009) adds that, instead of using forward contacts for swaps, as they
have been traditionally utilised, one could also hedge price risks with the help of
futures. Since the buyer of a future really wants to take delivery of a good and
thus there is no speculation, futures contracts should be met with less disapproval.
It should be noted that the Maliki school allows futures contracts to be traded, like
they have always done for bai’ salam contracts, but the Hanafi, Shafii and Hanbali
schools do not.
Ahmed and Khan (2007) assert that by virtue of a number of fiqh resolu-
tions, conventions and new research, the scope for commodity futures in Islamic
finance is widening; the potential of futures contracts is tremendous in risk man-
agement and control. Kamali (2005) argues that if new technology can eliminate
gharar in the contract, then it may be reconsidered by Shari’ah scholars. Futures
contracts should not be branded as maysir as they serve an economic purpose – to
reduce price risk. The implementation of a contemporary futures contract removes
gharar, which is the basis on which these contracts are forbidden, and in the future
they may prove to be instrumental in managing risks in Islamic banking, par-
ticularly commodity risks. He adds that Shari’ah scholars’ requirement for the
possession of assets prior to sale is in principle in order to avoid gharar, but this
argument against futures does not hold water as delivery is guaranteed by the
futures clearing house. Kamali concludes that futures contracts are Islamically
permissible provided that they steer clear of haram commodities and of interest
elements.
It should be mentioned that there are a few Muslim countries with futures mar-
kets: Indonesia (coffee and crude palm oil), Kazakhstan (wheat), Malaysia (crude
palm oil, stick index and government debt), and Turkey (currency). In addition,
there is some over-the-counter trading based on bai’salam in a number of Islamic
countries, including Iran (Visser, 2009).
Arbun Arbun is a contract whereby a buyer of goods makes an immediate
down-payment of part of the price against future delivery. The buyer has the

--- Página 132 ---
116
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
option to pay the balance, being the purchase price less the down-payment, at any
time until a specified final purchase date. However, should the buyer choose not
to buy the goods by the final purchase date, the down-payment will be forfeited.
It is very similar to the call option in conventional finance. The main difference
is that a call option is purchased by paying a premium which is not offset against
the purchase price should the option be exercised, whereas the down-payment on
an arbun purchase is part payment for the good or asset if the sale is effectuated
(Visser, 2009). Islamic funds have successfully utilised arbun to minimise
portfolio risks in what are now popularly known in the Islamic financial markets
as the Principal Protected Funds (PPFs) (Ahmed and Khan, 2007). Further
development should move toward credit risk mitigation by way of Islamic credit
default swaps and the development of options under the arbun structure.
It should be noted that the Hanbali school is the most liberal in allowing
arbun; other schools, in particular the Hanafi school, tend to be opposed to it
(Yaccubi, 2010). They argue that the retention of a down-payment by the seller
is akin to misappropriation of the property of others and hence is not permissible
(Visser, 2009).
Khiyar al-shart Khiyar al-Shart (option of condition) is a contract in which one
or both parties to a contract (or even a third party) holds an option (embedded
within the contract) to confirm or rescind the contract within a specified time
contingent on the fulfilment of a stipulated condition. The contract has embedded
options that could be triggered if the underlying asset’s price exceeds certain
bounds. The features of this contract in relation to its exercise are similar to
a conventional put option. What differentiates the khiyar al-shart option from
conventional options is that there can be no separate fee paid at the start of the
contract in respect of granting the option right. Therefore, it is the delivery price
of the underlying asset which includes an element that recognises the economic
value awarded to the option holder in the contract. Ahmed and Khan (2007) argue
that there are no fiqh objections to using non-detachable embedded options and
that in Sudan such a contractual agreement has become a regular feature of the
salam contract.
Wa’ad Bai’ salam, arbun and khiyar al-shart all involve bilateral binding con-
tracts, whereas the rules are less stringent with a wa’ad contract. It is a promise
whereby the party looking to hedge provides a unilateral binding undertaking to
buy currency from a third party at a given price in the future. The third party is
not under any obligation to act on the transaction when the offer to purchase is
submitted, resulting in significant counterparty risk (Wyman, 2009).
Dual murabahah In conventional terms a Dual Currency Deposit is a fixed
deposit with variable terms for the currency of payment. Deposits are made in one

--- Página 133 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
117
currency, but repayment at maturity occurs either in the currency of the initial
deposit or in another agreed-upon currency, depending on the occurrence of a
trigger event. The ‘optionality’ is typically created by buying an option from the
client. Rather than return the option premium to the client as a flat payment, it
is embedded in the deposit and returned to the client as an enhancement to the
deposit yield. This deposit creates foreign exchange rate risk for the investor and
is therefore only suitable for clients with a specific view or risk appetite.
To replicate the above payoff and risk profile in an Islamic environment,
Islamic banks combine commodity murabahah and wa’ad technology, enabling
the bank to pay the customer an increased profit on the murabahah and settle
the principal amount of the deferred price in a pre-specified different currency.
Figure 3.8 provides a detailed explanation of how the dual currency murabahah
can be used as a risk mitigation tool.
Further Risk Mitigation Provisions Inherent
in Islamic Banking
IFIs have to absorb the risks that they cannot transfer or mitigate. This is done
through the use of collateral, guarantees, loss reserves and provisions, alloca-
tion of capital through the Risk-Adjusted Return-On-Capital (RAROC) exercise,
risk weightings, etc. Sundararajan and Errico (2002) argue that in addition to the
traditional risk mitigants, the management of the risk-return mix, particularly of
unrestricted PSIAs, could be used as a key tool of risk management. Appropriate
policies toward PERs (and possibly IRRs), coupled with appropriate pricing of
investment accounts to match the underlying risks, would improve the extent of
overall risk-sharing by these accounts.
Also, under a PLS system the Islamic bank is subject to higher screening and
monitoring, making the danger of insolvency lower, provided that PLS principles
are rigorously applied. Managing the risk-sharing of IAHs through proper pric-
ing, reserving and disclosure policies would greatly enhance risk management in
Islamic banks.
Chapra (2007) argues that PLS might go a long way toward preventing finan-
cial crises, as it would substantially reduce the moral hazard problems associated
with prudential supervision of banking, in particular the incentive given by deposit
guarantees for high-risk lending and investment. In addition, it is argued that under
PLS there would be more discipline in the system. Depositors would be more
interested in the soundness of the banks and in the quality of the banks’ assets, in
order to prevent having to accept negative returns. Banks would also have a better
incentive to be careful in selecting borrowers and projects.
The PLS feature of Islamic banking therefore provides an inherent risk man-
agement tool that could be of great help to banks and the whole system if properly

--- Página 134 ---
118
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Client
2
5
4
3
Undertaking to
accept repayment
in alternative
currency
Cash deposited
with the Islamic
bank
Islamic bank
Counterparty bank
Principal
+ profit
FX
Trade
CM2
Profit
Undertaking to enter
into FX deal
6
1
FIGURE 3.8
Dual currency murabahah structure
1. Client (as seller) undertakes a commodity murabahah with the Islamic bank (as
purchaser) in a specified original currency (e.g. USD);
2. Contemporaneously, but separately, the Client issues an undertaking to the Islamic bank
to buy a specified amount of alternative currency (e.g. EUR) in exchange for a specified
amount of the original currency (e.g. USD);
3. The Islamic bank will give an undertaking to a Counterparty bank to enter into an FX
trade which mirrors the undertaking given by the Client to the Islamic bank;
4. The Islamic bank completes a contemporaneous but separate murabahah transaction
(CM2) with the Counterparty bank and receives the murabahah price. This transaction
will be concluded for spot settlement with no deferred payment;
5. At maturity, subject to the prevailing FX rates, the Islamic bank may enter into an FX
trade with the Counterparty bank pursuant to the Islamic bank’s undertaking;
6. At maturity, subject to the prevailing FX rates, the Islamic bank may enter into an FX
trade with the Client pursuant to the Client’s undertaking. The Islamic bank pays the
murabahah principal to the client in the original currency and (if appropriate) completes
the FX trade with the client to exchange the original currency with the alternative
currency. The profit is paid in the original currency.

--- Página 135 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
119
implemented. Under capital allocation, the IFSB supervisory discretion formula is
a step in the right direction as it acknowledges the risks assumed by PSIA holders
and incentivise banks – through lower capital requirements – to adopt more PLS
financing modes, as explained in Chapter 4.
In practice, however, the losses of Islamic banks are not shared with PSIA
holders, and often a minimum yield on deposits is ‘implicitly’ guaranteed. As
a result the potential benefits of PLS finance cannot be realised. According to
Sundararajan (2007), available empirical evidence shows that in practice, because
Islamic banks try to provide Shari’ah-compliant alternatives to conventional prod-
ucts, there is considerable smoothing of the profits paid out to the unrestricted
IAHs, and correspondingly reduced sharing of risk between the bank and the
holders of such investment accounts, with banks bearing the majority of the risk.
The extent of this de facto departure from the risk-sharing principle for unrestricted
IAHs varies between countries; in some countries banks are expected – though not
legally bound – to bear virtually all of the asset risk, while in others it is simply
a matter of competitive pressure. Under current practices, reserves are passively
adjusted to provide a stable return to unrestricted IAHs, effectively not allowing
any risk mitigation through investment account management. For example, many
banks with sharply divergent risk profiles and returns on assets seem to be offering
almost identical returns on unrestricted IAHs, and these are broadly in line with
the general rate of return on deposits in conventional banks.
Moreover, most Islamic banks realise the risk management gaps in their cur-
rent business models especially in the areas of liquidity and hedging. Therefore,
Islamic banks traditionally have been holding a comparatively larger proportion
of their assets in reserve accounts, resulting in higher buffers than conventional
banks.
Finally, some constraints attached to the status of IFIs, as sellers and buyers
of tangible goods – as opposed to conventional banks intermediating between cash
inflows and outflows with different maturities – also have risk-mitigating benefits.
One rule of the key principles of modern Islamic finance states that any financial
transaction should be backed by a tangible, identifiable underlying asset. This is
a powerful way for the IFI to secure, at least in principle, strong access to the
collateral backing the transaction. In short, IFIs naturally have a high level of col-
lateralisation on their credit portfolios, and thus are in a position to somewhat
reduce their economic, if not regulatory, exposures at default. In addition, IFIs
have in principle greater visibility in terms of the economic allocation of the funds
they supply to borrowers. Indeed, contrary to a conventional financial institution
where a customer is not obliged to disclose the purpose of its loan, the IFI finances
the acquisition of an identifiable asset legal ownership of which belongs, in most
cases, to the bank until full repayment is made.

--- Página 136 ---
120
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
SURVEYING RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
IN ISLAMIC BANKS: A REVIEW OF EMPIRICAL
RESEARCH
Given the importance of risk management for the survival of financial institutions,
it is no surprise that there are numerous conceptual studies about risk management
frameworks and techniques for conventional banks. Also, there are many empirical
findings that examine different aspects of risk management practices by various
financial institutions.
In the context of Islamic banking, however, risk management is an
under-researched area. A few studies have been carried out on the theoretical side
of risk management in Islamic banking, including the work of Haron and Hin
Hock (2007) on market and credit risk; they explain the inherent risk, i.e. credit
and market risk exposures in IFIs. They also illustrate the importance of displaced
commercial risk in Islamic banking. They conclude that certain risks may be
considered as being inherent in the operations of both Islamic and conventional
banks. Although the risk exposures of IFIs differ and may be more complex than
those of conventional financial institutions, the principles of credit and market
risk management are applicable to both.
Apart from those two risks, Archer and Haron (2007) show that IFIs are
exposed to a number of operational risks that are different from those faced by con-
ventional banks. They argue that the complexities of a number of their products, as
well as their relative novelty in the contemporary financial services market, com-
bined with the fiduciary obligations of an Islamic bank when it acts as a mudarib,
imply that for IFIs operational risk is a very important consideration.
Other conceptual research about risk management in Islamic finance
includes Iqbal and Mirarkor (2007), Akkizidis and Khandelwal (2008), Grais and
Kulathunga (2007), Greuning and Iqbal (2007) and Sundararajan (2007).
On the empirical side, research about risk management in Islamic finance is
limited. An earlier study by Khan and Ahmed (2001) is still the most profound
empirical research, which examined different aspects of risk management issues
in IFIs. They sent out questionnaires to 68 IFIs in 28 countries and also visited
Bahrain, Egypt, Malaysia and the UAE to discuss issues related to risk manage-
ment with the officials of the IFIs. A total of 17 questionnaires were received from
10 countries in their study, which touched on different aspects of risk management
in IFIs. Their study first identified the severity of different risks and then examined
the risk management process in Islamic banks. Among the traditional risks facing
Islamic banks, mark-up risk was ranked the highest, followed by operational risk.
The results show that IFIs face some risks that are different from those faced by
conventional financial institutions. These banks reveal that some of these risks are

--- Página 137 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
121
considered more serious than the conventional risks faced by financial institu-
tions. Profit-sharing modes of financing (diminishing musharakah, musharakah
and mudarabah) and product-deferred sale (salam and istisna’a) are considered
more risky than murababah and ijarah. Other risks arise in Islamic banks, as they
pay depositors a share of the profit that is not fixed ex ante. The results of the sur-
vey of risk perception in different modes of financing by Khan and Ahmed (2001)
thus show that the risk level is considered elevated as depicted by Table 3.4.
Their research also indicates that Islamic banks have been able to establish
better risk-management policies and procedures in measuring, mitigating and
monitoring risks, with internal controls somewhere in the middle. The results
also point out that the lack of some instruments (like short-term financial assets
and derivatives) and of a money market hampers risk management in IFIs. There
is a need for research in these areas to develop instruments and markets for these
instruments that are compatible with the Shari’ah. At government level, the legal
system and regulatory framework of the Islamic financial system need to be under-
stood and appropriate policies should be undertaken to cater to the needs of IFIs.
Furthermore, Khan and Prodhan (1992) carried out a survey that focused on
the integration of Islamic banks with conventional banking and the problems aris-
ing from the potential conflict, such as the need for convertible instruments, proper
accounting procedures, etc. They concluded that with an Islamic banking system
it becomes more important for the government to take an active position in terms
of enforcing regulations and overseeing economic activity. “If policy measures are
piecemeal and fiscal intervention uncoordinated, then an inefficient conventional
banking and fiscal sector is replaced by an equally inefficient Islamic system”
(Khan and Prodhan, 1992:20)
TABLE 3.4
Risk perception in different modes of financing
Contract
Credit
Risk
Mark-up
Risk
Liquidity
Risk
Operational
Risk
Murabahah
2.56
2.87
2.67
2.93
Mudarabah
3.25
3.00
2.46
3.08
Musharakah
3.69
3.40
2.92
3.18
Ijarah
2.64
3.92
3.10
2.90
Istisna’a
3.13
3.57
3.00
3.29
Salam
3.20
3.50
3.20
3.25
Diminishing Musharakah
3.33
3.40
3.33
3.40
Note: The rank has a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 indicating ‘Not Serious’ and 5 denoting ‘Critically Serious’
Source: Based on data from Khan and Ahmed (2001:64)

--- Página 138 ---
122
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Moreover, Samad (2004) empirically studied the performance differences
between conventional and Bahraini Islamic banks by t-testing nine accounting
ratios by studying 21 banks, out of which six were Islamic, over the period
1991–2001. He concluded that both types of bank performed equally well in
terms of profitability and liquidity. However, Islamic banks seem to be less
exposed to credit risk.
In recent International Monetary Fund (IMF) research, Heiko and Cihak
(2008) used data from 77 Islamic banks and 397 commercial banks across 18
jurisdictions with a substantial presence of Shari’ah-compliant banks to provide
a cross-country empirical analysis of the role of these banks in financial stability
using their so-called z-scores. The z-score combines a bank’s capitalisation,
profitability and a measure of risk faced by the bank into a single index. The inter-
pretation of the z-score is straightforward: the lower the score, the more likely it is
that a bank will run out of capital. Defining large banks as those with total assets
of more than USD 1 billion and small banks as all others, the study found that:
(i) Small Islamic banks tend to be financially stronger (that is, have higher
z-scores) than small and large conventional banks;
(ii) Large conventional banks tend to be financially stronger than large Islamic
banks; and
(iii) Small Islamic banks tend to be financially stronger than large Islamic banks.
A plausible explanation of the contrast between the high stability in small
Islamic banks and the relatively lower stability in larger ones is that it is sig-
nificantly more complex for Islamic banks to adjust their credit risk monitoring
system as they become bigger. For example, the PLS modes used by Islamic banks
are more diverse and more difficult to standardise than loans used by conventional
banks. As a result, as the scale of the banking operation grows, monitoring of credit
risk rapidly becomes much more complex, which results in greater prominence
of problems relating to adverse selection and moral hazard. Another explanation
is that small banks concentrate on low-risk investments and fee income, while
large banks do more PLS business. The authors also found that as the presence of
Islamic banks grows in a country’s financial system, there is no significant impact
on the soundness of other banks. This suggests that Islamic and conventional banks
can coexist in the same system without substantial ‘crowding out’ effects through
competition and deteriorating soundness.
More recently, Shaikh and Jalbani (2009) also provided a differential analysis
of risk management procedures in Islamic banking. Studying a sample of four
banks, this research used Return on Equity (ROE) as the benchmark for the
comparative performance of Islamic banks and conventional banks. The study
concluded that there is a strong relationship between the ROE of both Islamic
and conventional banks, and that the risk management procedures in Islamic

--- Página 139 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
123
banks are adequate to mitigate their largely equity-based investments and give
their customers adequate returns which are comparable with conventional banks.
The paper optimistically concluded that the issue of equity-based business of
Islamic banks posing slightly more risk than conventional banks is well mitigated
by Islamic banks through their effective and adequate distinct risk management
procedures. However, the research behind this book does not agree with the
research methodology and the findings of that study.
More relevant to this study is the work of Rosman and Abdul Rahman’s
(2010), which found that the lack of effective risk management practices for both
liquidity risks and rate-of-return risk/displaced commercial risk will be the prime
concern for Islamic banks and regulatory agencies. They argue that the inadequacy
of risk management practices by Islamic banks may threaten their sustainability
especially during financial crises. They assert that Islamic banks are still lacking
in the use of technically advanced risk measurement approaches. Hence, IFIs need
to further enhance risk measurement approaches to measure complex risks such as
liquidity risk and rate-of-return risk/displaced commercial risk. Islamic banks are
also found to be mostly complacent in their risk mitigation approaches as they con-
tinue to utilise risk mitigation techniques that are widely used by the conventional
banks. These findings lead to the need to develop the unique Shari’ah-compliant
risk mitigation techniques
Finally, Noraini et al. (2009) attempted to ascertain the perceptions of Islamic
bankers about the nature of risks, risk measurement, and risk management tech-
niques in their banks. The study covered 28 Islamic banks in 14 countries, using a
questionnaire survey. The results indicated that Islamic banks are mostly exposed
to similar types of risk to those in conventional banks, but that there are differ-
ences in the level of the risks. However, the study found no evidence that Islamic
bankers in different countries perceived risks differently. The study recommends
that each risk be assessed separately for each financial instrument in order to facili-
tate appropriate risk management. The findings also suggest that Islamic banks are
perceived to use less technically advanced risk measurement techniques, of which
the most commonly used are maturity matching, gap analysis and credit ratings.
In addition, Noraini et al.’s research shows that Islamic banks are not fully using
Shari’ah-compliant risk mitigation methods, which are different from the ones
used by conventional banks. The findings of their study have both theoretical and
policy implications for the issue of transparency, with particular reference to risk
reporting in Islamic banks.
CONCLUSION
Islamic banks are, for the most part, still small and in the start-up phase of develop-
ment in an industry which is itself relatively young. Whereas risk management is

--- Página 140 ---
124
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
practised widely in conventional financial markets, it is underdeveloped in Islamic
finance. This gives rise to an array of risks which are not yet well comprehended.
Moreover, risks unique to Islamic banks arise from the specific features of Islamic
contracts and the overall legal, governance and liquidity infrastructure of Islamic
finance. Literature review reveals that the infrastructural environment of most
Islamic banks is characterised by weak transparency, high concentration risks,
lack of commonly accepted Shari’ah-compliance and accounting standards, and
shortage of liquidity and hedging products. To solve these problems Islamic
finance institutions like the AAOIFI, IFSB, LMC, IILM, IIFM and others have
developed a core set of accounting, liquidity, governance, risk management,
auditing and Shari’ah standards. Nevertheless, IFIs still face risks connected
to the enforceability of promises, efficient management of funding and asset
liquidity, and many other limitations. Several areas such as asset pricing, hedging
and risk mitigation therefore require further research. For example, in the absence
of a risk-free asset, how will the CAPM behave? Or using Black’s zero-beta
model, how will the model behave with restrictions on short selling? Several such
issues have not been researched yet (Askari et al., 2009). Adopting accepted risk
models from the conventional banking practice or making suitable adjustments
to best practices pose major challenges.
The future of Islamic banking will depend to a large extent on innovation.
The immediate need is to develop instruments that enhance liquidity; to develop
secondary money and interbank markets; to perform asset–liability and risk man-
agement; and to develop Islamically acceptable risk hedging tools.
In some ways, Islamic banking could be less risky than the conventional
banking industry because there are several features that could make IFIs less
vulnerable to risk. For instance, Islamic banks are able, in theory, to pass through
a negative shock on the asset side to the PSIA depositors. The risk-sharing
arrangements on the deposit side provide another layer of protection to the bank.
In addition, it could be argued that the need to provide stable and competitive
returns to investors, the shareholders’ responsibility for negligence or misconduct,
and the more difficult access to liquidity put pressures on Islamic banks to be more
conservative (Heiko and Cihak, 2008) and to keep liquidity buffers. Furthermore,
because depositors share in the risks (and typically do not have deposit guarantee)
they have more incentives to exercise tight oversight over bank management.
Finally, Islamic banks have traditionally held a comparatively larger proportion of
their assets than commercial banks in reserve accounts. So, even though Islamic
investments are more risky than conventional instruments, these higher risks have
traditionally been compensated for by higher buffers.
In 2007, Michael Ainley, Head of Wholesale Banking at the FSA, stated at the
Islamic Finance Summit in London that “Risk knows no religion” (Ainley, 2007).
He obviously did not get it fully right when he thought that risks are similar for

--- Página 141 ---
Risk Management in Islamic Banks
125
Islamic and conventional banks. Although conventional and Islamic markets share
similar risks, the level of risk is different and certainly higher in the case of today’s
Islamic banking. A common perception about Islamic banking is that it is expected
to be safer and more resilient than the debunked Wall Street model, a perception
which is not entirely correct. Advocates of Islamic banking have recently, espe-
cially after the start of the credit crisis, been claiming that Islamic finance is a
safe haven. The truth is that Islamic banking in its current state can be riskier than
conventional banking because of the additional risk management challenges and
constraints the industry faces.
In theory, Islamic banking is safer than conventional banking. The theory is,
unfortunately, a long way from fact in current financial practice. Since the risk
management needs of Islamic banking are not yet being met, the system is not
functioning at its full potential. There is a growing realisation that the long-term
sustainable growth of Islamic banking will depend largely on the development of
risk-sharing products. Chapter 5 thoroughly explains that Islamic banking could
be a safe haven provided that its broader principles on a macro-level are entirely
followed by all participants. In other words, when the short-terms risks and the
longer-term stability are put together, the outlook for the Islamic banking industry
looks less risky than its critics claim.
Having mapped out the risk and the risk management techniques and practices
in this chapter, the next chapter continues with discussion of capital adequacy in
Islamic banks. This is further explored, like the issues in this chapter, empirically
in Chapters 7, 8 and 9.
NOTE
1. Although BCCI – which was incorporated in Luxembourg – was a conventional bank,
the fact that it had lots of Muslims on board created the illusion that it was an Islamic
bank.

--- Página 143 ---
CHAPTER4
Capital Adequacy for
Islamic Banks
A Survey
Capital isn’t scarce; vision is
—Sam Walton
F
inancial liberalisation, as part of globalisation, has been followed keenly by
developing countries since the 1990s. Several restrictions were eased, and
self-regulation was considered to be the motivating factor. However, develop-
ments show that everything did not work well. There were several instances of
malpractice, financial frauds and some failures. In responding to this, regulators
started looking at the existing set of standards and ways to overcome the issue of
balancing control and freedom. From simple capital provisions to comprehensive
frameworks for risk management, the practice of risk management, as a result,
has undergone wholesale transformation over the past two decades (Akkizidis and
Khandelwal, 2007). More systematic transformation has taken place during the
current straitened times. It is a fact that each country has its own set of regulations
based on several parameters. The most common among them is the requirement
to hold minimum capital indexed to the activities of the bank.
Capital adequacy is at the core of supervisory activities all over the world. It
is an important benchmark for the soundness of financial institutions. It is gain-
ing more prominence after the recent credit crunch, which saw numerous financial
institutions collapsing because their capital was not big enough to absorb the risks
they were taking. Developments have shown that the market turmoil turned out to
be deeper and more enduring than previously anticipated and that financial markets
are failing to sustain the normal flow of capital. Regulators, banks and industry par-
ticipants realised that capital is a critical factor for the intrinsic strength of banks.
Therefore, this chapter is designated to discuss capital adequacy in Islamic bank-
ing, which is explored empirically in the following chapters with the opinions of
sample bankers, financiers, Shari’ah scholars and academics.
127

--- Página 144 ---
128
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The fundamental principle that capital is the currency of risk and that ade-
quate capital protects against distress applies equally to all banks. Therefore, the
implementation of Basel II is as critical to Islamic banks as it is to their con-
ventional counterparts. With necessary adjustments, the three Pillars of Basel II
could be applicable to Islamic banks. The need for supervisory oversight in Pillar
2 can hardly be overemphasised, as market discipline through disclosure will pro-
vide greater transparency and benefit to Islamic banks. The capital treatment of
Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts (PSIAs) adds complexity to capital require-
ments for Islamic banks. Notwithstanding the loss-absorbing features of PSIAs,
in practice they behave like normal deposits and most regulators do not treat them
as having capital features. Hence, the risk-sharing characteristic of PSIAs requires
special capital treatment.
The previous two chapters have dealt with the evolution of Islamic banking
and the major types of risks in conventional and Islamic banks. The present
chapter provides a brief review of the Basel II Accord and is hence largely based
on documents issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). A
brief summary of the original Basel I Accord is presented, highlighting the major
limitations of the first Accord. A summary of the three Pillars of Basel II and
the forthcoming Basel III standards and their applicability for Islamic financial
institutions (IFIs) is also presented. The Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB)
has issued capital adequacy standards for the Islamic financial industry, which
are discussed in detail. This chapter, however, does not thoroughly discuss
Basel II, nor does it examine every single detail of the IFSB papers, as plenty
of literature exists about the Basel Accords and other Bank for International
Settlements (BIS) guidelines, and the IFSB papers are brief and simple enough
to be self-explanatory. This chapter highlights the specifics of capital adequacy
requirements for IFIs, explains the differences between the conventional Basel
Accords and the Islamic version provided by the IFSB, and illustrates how
the capital adequacy requirement can be used as a tool for risk mitigation for
Islamic banks.
SIGNIFICANCE OF CAPITAL IN BANKING
Nearly all jurisdictions with active banking markets require banks to maintain
a minimum level of capital. Capital plays an important role in any business but
it is critically important in the case of banks, as it serves as a foundation for a
bank’s future growth and as a cushion against its unexpected losses. Adequately
capitalised banks as well-managed banks are better able to withstand losses
and to provide credit to consumers and businesses alike throughout the business

--- Página 145 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
129
cycle, particularly during downturns. Hence, capital is one of the key determinants
and indicators of the soundness of a bank, not only because adequate capital
serves as a safety net, but also because it is the ultimate determinant of a bank’s
lending and investment capacity. Adequate levels of capital thereby help to
promote public confidence in the banking system.
Banks by the nature of their business have a lower capital-to-liabilities ratio
than other types of business. This low ratio is a reflection of the nature of the
intermediation business and acceptance of large amounts of liabilities in the form
of deposits. To encourage prudent management of the risks associated with the
unique balance sheet structure, regulators require banks to maintain a certain level
of capital. The idea behind such a requirement is that a bank’s balance sheet should
not be expanded beyond the level of risks its capital can absorb. The technical
challenge, however, for both banks and supervisors, has been to determine how
much capital is necessary to serve as a sufficient buffer against unexpected losses.
If capital levels are too low, banks may be unable to absorb high levels of losses.
On the other hand, excessively low levels of capital increase the risk of bank fail-
ures which, in turn, may put depositors’ funds at risk. Under-capitalised banks are
highly prone to the risk of insolvency and can also suffer from retarded growth.
If capital levels are too high, banks may not be able to make the most efficient
use of their resources. A bank which is over-capitalised will have low return on its
capital and will not be able to pay decent dividends to its shareholders (Jorion and
Khoury, 1996). Thus, arriving at an optimal level of capital is in the best interest
of banks and shareholders. Both financial intermediaries and regulators are there-
fore sensitive to the dual role of capital. Financial intermediaries tend to focus
more on the earnings-generating role, while regulators tend to be focused on the
stability-cushion role.
CLASSIFICATION OF CAPITAL
Defining what constitutes capital is a long-debated issue. However, there is a wide
acceptance of the capital structure that has been stipulated by the BCBS, which
segregates capital into three categories as set out in Table 4.1.
In general, according to BCBS (2006), the capital of a bank should have three
important characteristics:
(i) It must be permanent;
(ii) It must not impose mandatory fixed charges against earnings; and
(iii) It must allow for legal subordination to the rights of depositors and other
creditors.

--- Página 146 ---
130
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 4.1
Classification of capital in the Basel Accords
Classification
Contents
Tier 1 (core capital)
Ordinary paid-up share of capital or common stock,
disclosed reserves from post-tax retained earnings,
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (goodwill
to be deducted)
Tier 2 (supplementary capital)
Undisclosed reserves, asset revaluation reserves,
general provisions or general loan-loss provisions,
hybrid (debt-equity) capital instruments and
subordinated term debts
Tier 3
Unsecured debt: subordinated and fully paid up, to
have an original maturity of at least two years and
not be repayable before the agreed repayment date
unless the supervisory authority agrees
Source: Adapted from Greuning and Iqbal (2008:223)
STEPS IN THE BASEL ACCORD
One cannot discuss capital adequacy without mentioning the renowned Basel
Accord. The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) was established on 17 May
1930; it is the oldest international financial institution. It provides a platform
for consultative cooperation among the central banks. The role of BIS has
undergone change as per the needs of the international financial sector. BIS
now also acts as an institution for collection, compilation and dissemination of
economic and financial statistics. It actively promotes global financial stability,
and also performs the traditional banking function for the central bank community
(gold and foreign exchange transactions). It has several committees working on
different aspects of international financial stability. The BCBS, as part of the BIS
structure, was formed at the end of 1974 by the Governors of the G10 nations. The
BCBS issued a series of documents beginning in 1975 on banking supervision
(Akkizidis and Khandelwal, 2007).
The Basel I Accord
The 1988 Basel Capital Accord set out the first internationally accepted definition
of, and minimum measure for, bank capital. The Basel Committee designed the
1988 Accord as a simple standard so that it could be applied to banks in several
jurisdictions. It requires banks to divide their exposures up into broad ‘classes’
reflecting similar types of borrowers. A minimum capital of 8% of risk-weighted

--- Página 147 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
131
assets (RWAs) was given. For example, 0% for cash, 20% for claims on multi-
lateral development banks, 50% for residential mortgages and 100% for loans to
the private sector. These risk-based capital charges roughly attempted to create a
greater penalty for riskier assets (Jorion and Khoury, 1996).
While the 1988 Accord was initially applied only to internationally active
banks in the G10 countries, it quickly became acknowledged as a benchmark mea-
sure of a bank’s solvency and is believed to have been adopted in some form by
more than 100 countries (KPMG, 2007).
The 1996 Amendment
The 1988 Basel Accord was soon proved insufficient and rendered obsolete by
rapid changes in the financial sector. The 1996 amendment covered the four major
risk categories of market risk (Akkizidis and Khandelwal, 2007:82–83):
(i) Interest rate-related instruments;
(ii) Equities;
(iii) Foreign exchange risk; and
(iv) Commodities.
Issues with the Basel I Accord
The world financial system has seen considerable changes since the introduction of
the Basel I Accord. Financial markets have become more volatile, and a significant
degree of financial innovation has taken place. There have also been incidents of
economic turbulence leading to widespread financial crises – for example, in Asia
in 1997 and in Eastern Europe in 1998. In addition, advances in risk management
practices, technology and banking markets have made the 1988 Accord’s simple
approach to measuring capital less meaningful for many banking organisa-
tions. For example, the 1988 Accord sets capital requirements based on broad
classes of exposures and does not distinguish between the relative degrees of
creditworthiness among individual borrowers.
In a similar manner, improvements in internal processes, the adoption of more
advanced risk measurement techniques, and the increasing use of sophisticated
risk management practices, such as securitisation, have changed leading organisa-
tions’ monitoring and management of exposures and activities – this has been the
result of Basel I. However, supervisors and sophisticated banking organisations
have found that the static rules set out in the 1988 Accord have not kept pace with
advances in sound risk management practices. This suggests that the existing cap-
ital regulations did not reflect banks’ actual business practices. In other words, it
was not sufficiently risk sensitive (KPMG, 2007).

--- Página 148 ---
132
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The Basel II Accord
In June 2004, the Basel Committee finalised a comprehensive revision to the Basel
Accord. In the European Union, the new Capital Adequacy Directive began to
apply to all banks from 2007 onwards, with the most advanced methods being
viable from 2008. US regulators decided to apply Basel II to a small number of
large banks, with other banks subject to a revised version of Basel I.
How does Basel II differ from the 1988 Basel Capital Accord?
The
Basel II Framework is more reflective of the underlying risks in banking and
provides stronger incentives for improved risk management. It builds on the 1988
Accord’s basic structure for setting capital requirements and improves the capital
framework’s sensitivity to the risks that banks actually face. This will be achieved
in part by aligning capital requirements more closely to the risk of credit loss and
by introducing a new capital charge for exposures to the risk of loss caused by
operational failures (EIIB, 2010c).
The Basel Committee, however, broadly maintained the aggregate level of
minimum capital requirements, while providing incentives to adopt the more
advanced risk-sensitive approaches of the revised framework. Basel II com-
bines these minimum capital requirements with supervisory review and market
discipline to encourage improvements in risk management.
Basel II also covers a wide range of risks which were not previously
included in the original Accord, such as operational risk, country risk, legal risk,
concentration risk, liquidity risk and reputational risk. Basel II marks a shift from
transaction-based supervision to risk-based supervision (KPMG, 2007).
The Three Pillars of Basel II
The overarching goal for the Basel II Framework is to promote the adequate cap-
italisation of banks and to encourage improvements in risk management, thereby
strengthening the stability of the financial system. This goal was accomplished
through the introduction of ‘three pillars’ that mutually reinforce each other and
that create incentives for banks to enhance the quality of their control processes.
The first pillar represents a significant strengthening of the minimum requirements
set out in the 1988 Accord, while the second and third pillars represent innovative
additions to capital supervision. Figure 4.1 provides an overall structure of the
Basel II Framework and the sub-components of each of its main three pillars.
When estimating the minimum capital requirements, there are two types of
capital that can be calculated by financial institutions: economic capital and regula-
tory capital. As opposed to regulatory capital, which is set by regulators, economic
capital is the amount of capital estimated by the bank’s management to be main-
tained. Setting a higher limit for economic capital provides some room for leverage

--- Página 149 ---
Basel II Framework
Pillar I
Minimum Capital Requirements
Risk-Weighted
Assets
Credit Risk
Standardised
Approach
Internal
Ratings-
Based (IRB)
Foundation
IRB
Advanced
IRB
Standardised
Approach
Internal Models
Approach
Basic
Indicator
Approach
Standardised
Approach
Advanced
Measurement
Approach
Operational
Risk
Market Risk
Tier 1
Capital
Tier 2
Capital
Tier 3
Capital
Total Capital
Pillar II
Supervisory Review Process
Pillar III
Market Discipline/Disclosure
FIGURE 4.1
Structure of the Basel II Accord
Note: The shaded Approaches are the ones most commonly used by Islamic banks
133

--- Página 150 ---
134
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
for banks. Economic capital is covered by Pillar 2, while regulatory capital is cov-
ered by Pillar 1 of the Basel II Accord.
Pillar 1 of the new capital framework revises the 1988 Accord’s guidelines
by aligning the minimum capital requirements more closely to each bank’s actual
risk of economic loss.
Basel II improves the capital framework’s sensitivity to the risk of credit
losses generally by requiring higher levels of capital for those borrowers thought
to present higher levels of credit risk, and vice versa. The calculation of the min-
imum capital is presented with the help of the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR),
which is defined by Equation 4.1:
Equation 4.1 CAR computation according to Basel II Accord
Capital (Tier 1, 2,3 and deductions)
RWA(Credit risk + Market risk + Operational risk charge)
= Bank’s capital ratio ≥8%
The equation defines the CAR as the ratio of the bank’s capital (Tier 1 and
Tier 2) to its RWAs, and it should not be lower than 8%. However, the regula-
tors in each jurisdiction are given the discretion to impose a higher percentage if
required).
Three options are available to allow banks and supervisors to choose an
approach that seems most appropriate for the level of sophistication of a bank’s
activities and internal controls.
Credit risk capital charge
Credit risks are of such great importance to banks
from the regulators’ perspective that the original 1988 Capital Accord required
capital only against credit risks for on and off balance sheet assets. The primary
concern of regulators is that banks should be aware of their credit risk and maintain
a minimum level of capital to overcome any instability caused by default by a
client. Basel II classifies assets into five risk categories (0%, 10%, 20%, 50% and
100%), depending on their rating.
Under the Standardised Approach (SA) to credit risk, banks that engage in
less complex forms of lending and credit underwriting and that have simpler
control structures may use external measures of credit risk to assess the credit
quality of their borrowers for regulatory capital purposes.
Banks that engage in more sophisticated risk-taking and that have developed
advanced risk measurement systems may, with the approval of their supervisors,
select from one of two Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) approaches to credit risk.
Under an IRB approach, banks rely partly on their own measures of a borrower’s
credit risk to determine their capital requirements, subject to strict data, validation
and operational requirements (BCBS, 2006).

--- Página 151 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
135
Market risk capital charge
The BCBS described detailed methods for the
calculation of capital charges for (i) foreign exchange risk, (ii) interest rate risk,
(iii) equity position risk, (iv) commodities risk, and (v) derivative trading. The
capital charge for foreign exchange risk may exclude structured foreign exchange
positions. The capital charge for interest rate risk is applied to the current trad-
ing book items. The Committee has prescribed two alternative models to measure
market risk: the SA and the Internal Model Approach (IMA).
Operational risk capital charge
Unlike Basel I, which focused on credit
risk, Basel II includes an explicit measure for operational risk. This new capital
Accord requires all banks to hold adequate capital against potential operational
losses. The new framework establishes an explicit capital charge for a bank’s
exposures to the risk of losses caused by failures in systems, processes or staff,
or to losses that are caused by external events such as natural disasters. Similar to
the range of options provided for assessing exposures to credit risk, banks will
choose one of three approaches for measuring their exposure to operational risk
that they and their supervisors agree reflects the quality and sophistication of their
internal controls over this particular risk area. Banks have the option to choose
from the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA), the SA or the Advanced Measurement
Approach (AMA).
By aligning capital charges more closely to a bank’s own measures of its expo-
sures to credit, market and operational risks, the Basel II Framework encourages
banks to refine those measures. It also provides explicit incentives in the form of
lower capital requirements for banks to adopt more comprehensive and accurate
measures of risk, as well as more effective processes for controlling their exposures
to risk.
While understanding the risks and the allocation of capital under Pillar 1
is a critical step, the core elements of supervision (Pillar 2) and market dis-
cipline (Pillar 3) are equally important. The Basel Committee believes that a
well-designed capital requirement standard cannot be made effective in the
absence of strong and prudent supervision.
Pillar 2 of the new capital framework recognises the necessity of exercising
an effective supervisory review of banks’ internal assessments of their overall risks
to ensure that bank management is exercising sound judgement and has set aside
adequate capital for these risks.
Supervisors will evaluate the activities and risk profiles of individual banks
to determine whether those organisations should hold higher levels of capital than
the minimum requirements in Pillar 1 would specify, and to see whether there is
any need for remedial actions.
The Committee expects that, when supervisors engage banks in a dialogue
about their internal processes for measuring and managing their risks, they will

--- Página 152 ---
136
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
help to create implicit incentives for organisations to develop sound control struc-
tures and to improve those processes.
The Committee cautions that increased capital should not be taken as the only
option for addressing risks. It advised the use of other means such as: strengthening
risk management, applying internal limits, strengthening the level of provisions
and reserves, and improving internal controls. Capital should not be treated as a
substitute for adequate control or risk management processes.
Pillar 3 leverages the ability of market discipline to motivate prudent man-
agement by enhancing the degree of transparency in banks’ public reporting. It
sets out the public disclosures that banks must make that lend greater insight into
the adequacy of their capitalisation. The disclosure requirements are based on the
concept of materiality, i.e. banks must include all information where omission or
misstatement could change or influence the decisions of information users. The
only exception is proprietary or confidential information, the sharing of which
could undermine a bank’s competitive position.
The Committee believes that, when marketplace participants have a sufficient
understanding of a bank’s activities and the controls it has in place to manage its
exposures, they are better able to distinguish between banking organisations so
that they can reward those that manage their risks prudently and penalise those
that do not.
Criticism of and Amendments to the Basel II
Accord
As previously mentioned, after the Asian and the Eastern European financial crises
in the 1990s, there was increasing concern that the Basel I Accord did not provide
an effective means to ensure that capital requirements matched a bank’s true risk
profile. The risk measurement and control aspects of the Basel I Accord needed to
be improved, which led to the introduction of the Basel II Accord. Similar concerns
are being raised about Basel II after the financial tsunami that engulfed the world
from 2008. As a result, voices have been raised criticising Basel II and requesting a
new Accord for measuring and controlling capital requirements (British Bankers’
Association, 2009).
“Shortcomings in the Basel II Accord will be definitely addressed” stated
Engel (2010). This is essential, as the crisis has revealed that, on its own, with-
out a strong liquidity pillar, Basel II is impotent. The Basel regime, which was
always meant to be an evolutionary process, will change. The trend – apparent
already before the crisis – toward loosening the definition of regulatory capital
will be reversed. Definitions of capital will tighten and regulatory capital require-
ments will increase. Capital must no longer be looked at in isolation. The regula-
tions must recognise the interplay between liquidity and capital and the ability

--- Página 153 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
137
of liquidity problems to become capital problems. In addition to developing a
more prescriptive regime for liquidity risk, future capital rules should make exces-
sive leveraging incrementally more expensive and address procyclicality, poten-
tially by requiring banks to maintain larger capital buffers over the cycle (British
Bankers’ Association, 2009). It is worth mentioning that even before the crisis
Basel II was widely criticised for encouraging pro-cyclicality, which dynamic pro-
visioning is designed to offset.
The Basel Committee met in March 2009 to discuss embracing provision-
ing and higher capital. A statement on the BIS website stated that “This will
be achieved by a combination of measures such as introducing standards to pro-
mote the build-up of capital buffers that can be drawn down in periods of stress,
strengthening the quality of bank capital, improving the risk coverage of the capital
framework, and introducing a non-risk supplementary measure.” On 13 July 2009,
the BCBS announced that proposals for enhancing the Basel II Framework have
been finalised. The Committee is strengthening the treatment for certain securi-
tisations in Pillar 1 (minimum capital requirements). It is introducing higher risk
weights for resecuritisation exposures to better reflect the risk inherent in these
products and is also requiring that banks conduct more rigorous credit analyses of
externally rated securitisation exposures.
The supplemental Pillar 2 guidance addresses several notable weaknesses that
were revealed in banks’ risk management processes during the financial turmoil.
The areas addressed include:
(i) Firm-wide governance and risk management;
(ii) Capturing the risk of off balance sheet exposures and securitisation activities;
(iii) Managing risk concentrations;
(iv) Providing incentives for banks to better manage risk and returns over the long
term; and
(v) Sound stress-testing and compensation practices.
The Pillar 3 (market discipline) requirements have been strengthened in sev-
eral key areas, including:
(i) Securitisation exposures in the trading book;
(ii) Sponsorship of off balance sheet vehicles;
(iii) Resecuritisation exposures; and
(iv) Pipeline and warehousing risks with regard to securitisation exposures.
On 17 December 2009 the BCBS issued two consultative documents, one
entitled ‘Strengthening the Resilience of the Banking Sector’ and the other ‘Inter-
national Framework for Liquidity Risk Measurement, Standards and Monitor-
ing’. These documents contain proposals to strengthen global capital and liquidity

--- Página 154 ---
138
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
regulations with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector (BCBS,
2009b). Together with the measures already approved in July 2009, they form
the core of the new Basel III Accord. In fact, Basel II is correct in principle but
was wrong in implementation. Regulators should focus more on the implementa-
tion side.
BASEL II AND ISLAMIC BANKS
Islamic finance has become part of the global financial industry since the early
1990s; it is therefore subject to international standards and regulations. Capital
adequacy will hence remain as a core issue for risk management, whether for
conventional banks or Islamic banks, as the concept of having sufficient capital
cannot be refuted in Islamic finance. Although the risks in Islamic banks are more
contract-centric than the conventional product-centric, Basel II standards can still
be applied with some adjustments. Thus, application of Basel II is a matter of
adoption of the standards to the needs of Islamic banks.
Pillar 1
Unlike depositors of conventional banks, the contractual agreement between
Islamic banks and investment account holders (IAHs) is based on the concept of
profit and loss sharing (PLS), which makes IAHs a unique class of quasi-liability
holders: they are neither depositors nor equity holders. Although they are not part
of the bank’s capital, they are expected to absorb all losses on the investments
made through their funds, unless there is evidence of negligence or misconduct
on the part of the bank. This has serious implications for the determination
of adequate capital for Islamic banks as highlighted by Grais and Kulathunga
(2007:79) in the following points:
(i) PSIAs should not be subject to any capital requirements other than to cover
liability for negligence and misconduct by the bank, and to winding-down
expenses.
(ii) Investments funded by current accounts carry commercial banking risks and
should be subject to adequate risk weights and capital allocation.
(iii) Restricted PSIAs on the liabilities side form a collection of heterogeneous
investments funds resembling a fund of funds. Therefore, banks holding such
funds should be subject to the same capital requirements as are applicable to
fund managers.
(iv) The presence of displaced commercial risk and the practice of income
smoothing have indirect implications for Islamic banks’ capital adequacy,
which a regulator may take into account when determining the CAR.

--- Página 155 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
139
(v) Islamic banks acting as intermediaries may face a moral hazard issue.
Since, as agent, the bank is not liable for losses but shares the profits
with the IAHs, it may have an incentive to maximise the investments
funded by the account holder and to attract more accounts than it has the
capacity to handle. This can lead to investment decisions that are riskier
than the IAH is willing to accept. Such ‘incentive misalignment’ may lead
to higher displaced commercial risk, which necessitates higher capital
requirements.
Grais and Kulathunga (2007) add that capital as it is classified in conventional
banking cannot be used in Islamic banking. To be considered adequately capi-
talised, banks are required to hold a minimum capital (Tier 1 and Tier 2) equal
to 8% of RWAs (in most cases). Tier 1 capital is the same for Islamic and con-
ventional banks. However, in Islamic banks the reserves include the shareholders’
portion of the Profit Equalisation Reserves (PERs), which is included in disclosed
reserves. In Tier 2 capital, there are no hybrid capital instruments or subordinated
debts, as these would bear interest and contravene Shari’ah principles. Further-
more, an issue is the treatment of unrestricted PSIAs, which may be viewed as
equity investments on a limited term.
In addition, operational risk exposures appear to be higher in Islamic
banks. Akkizidis and Khandelwal (2007) argue that the BIA as indicated by
Basel II does not appear to be a case of perfect fit for Islamic banks. The
15% provision for operational risk of the average of three years’ gross income
needs to be examined thoroughly. The use of gross income as the BIA could
be misleading in Islamic banks, insofar as the large volume of transactions
in commodities and the use of structured finance raise operational exposures
that are not captured by gross income. In contrast, the SA, which allows for
different business lines, would be more suited, but it would have to be adapted
to the needs of Islamic banks as the different risk weights proposed by the
SA are not entirely applicable to their needs. In particular, agency services
under mudarabah and commodity inventory management need to be considered
explicitly. The allocation of 18% risk weight for business lines such as corporate
finance, trading and sales, and settlements may not represent the true picture
of risk exposures of Islamic banks as trading and sales in Islamic finance may
include some murabahah transactions and some exposure from financing large
accounts through istisna’a. Also, the SA allocates 12% to retail banking, asset
management and retail brokerage, which does not fully apply to Islamic banks.
As previously discussed, the risk exposures differ greatly during different stages
of the Islamic finance contract and a blanket of 12% does not appear to map the
risk exposure completely.

--- Página 156 ---
140
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Furthermore, the IRB under credit risk, the IMA under market risk, and the
AMA under operational risk are largely not applicable to Islamic banks for several
reasons: first, the absence of widespread rating for Islamic finance; second, the
changing nature of the relationships during the lifetime of the contract; and third,
difficulties in estimating PDs (probability of default), LGDs (loss given default),
and EADs (exposure at default) for Islamic finance.
Determination of Risk Weights
Assigning risk weights to different asset classes depends on the contractual
relationship between the bank and the borrower. For conventional banks, the
majority of assets are debt-based, whereas for IFIs, the assets range from trade
financing to equity partnership; this fact changes the nature of risks. In some
instruments there are additional risks which are not present in conventional
instruments. Therefore, the calculation of risk weights for the assets of IFIs
differs from the conventional banks because, according to Iqbal and Mirakhor
(2007:126):
(i) Assets based on trade are not truly financial assets and carry risk other than
credit and market risks;
(ii) There are non-financial assets such as real estate, commodities, istisna’a and
ijara contracts that have special risk characteristics;
(iii) IFIs carry partnership and PLS assets, which have a higher risk profile; and
(iv) IFIs do not have well-defined risk mitigation and hedging instruments, which
raises the overall risk level of assets.
Another complication in risk weightings is explained by Alsayed (2008): as
finance provided by Islamic banks is asset-backed, it is connected to the value of
tangible assets. These assets are subject to volatility in their values (as distinct
from depreciation). Banks are therefore exposed to not only the risk of default by
a customer, but also volatility in the amount of credit mitigation available from
the asset in the event of the need to realise their value. This means that there
are not just RWAs for the book value of the outstanding credit facility, but also
so-called ‘market risk charges’ in respect of the value of the assets collateral-
ising the finance facility, at the start of the life of a facility, sometimes during
the life of a facility, and at termination of the facility if the customer returns the
assets to the bank and does not take title. The regulatory risk-weighting framework
for Islamic banks is therefore more complex than that of conventional banks, and
Islamic banks need additional risk management policies and procedures to manage
these risks.

--- Página 157 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
141
Pillar 2
The role of supervisors is more critical due to the evolving nature of the Islamic
financial industry. Strong regulatory support in the form of monitoring and assis-
tance is needed for Islamic banks. Some of the recommendations of Pillar 2 can be
applied to Islamic banks, such as strengthening risk management systems, apply-
ing internal limits, strengthening the level of provisions and reserves, improving
internal controls, focusing on concentration risk and business cycle risks, etc.
A few of the Pillar 2 recommendations, although very relevant for conventional
banks, do not hold ground for Islamic banks (Grais and Kulathunga, 2007). For
example, liquidity risk, which is classified as residual risk under Pillar 2, is one
of the most important risks in Islamic banks. Liquidity risk management is at the
core of risk management in Islamic banking.
Ironically, after the recent financial crisis and the failure of some banks due to
liquidity issues, the BCBS declared the need for a special directive to address liq-
uidity. Regulators around the world began to introduce stricter liquidity standards
and independent measures to monitor liquidity.
Pillar 3
The absence of comparable information is one of the main issues in Islamic finan-
cial reporting. Since Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial
Institutions (AAOIFI) standards are not mandatory, there have been limited imple-
mentations, and the problem of non-comparability remains. Basel II recommen-
dations regarding consistent and comparable information are highly applicable to
the Islamic financial industry. Due to the social commitment attached to Islamic
finance, there is special need for market disclosure, and therefore transparency is
considered to be at the core of Islamic financial contracts, and thus should also be
reflected in reporting.
The role of information in risk management in Islamic banking is more critical
compared to in conventional banking, as PLS contracts are heavily biased toward
availability of information for managing the risks. It is therefore mandatory to
report the investment of funds, lines of business, activities and sources of revenue.
Due to its nature and ethical foundations, social responsibility is of the utmost
importance in Islamic finance. Moreover, direct market discipline is embedded
in the risk-sharing principle of Islamic finance because IAHs share in the risk of
the IFI and are not offered guarantees; incentives are created for a wider range of
stakeholders in the bank to monitor its activities and risk-taking, which reduces the
moral hazard problem. Along with this, there is greater emphasis on transparency,
and thus Pillar 3 of Basel II has more relevance for the Islamic financial industry
(Grais and Kulathunga, 2007).

--- Página 158 ---
142
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Several recent studies by the World Bank and the IMF such as Greuning
and Iqbal (2008), Hasan and Dridi (2010) and others have highlighted the signif-
icance of the appropriate balance of prudential supervision and market discipline
in Islamic finance; and the related implications for the industry specifically and
wider financial stability in general are also discussed.
BASEL III
The new tougher framework for international banking came into being in Septem-
ber 2010, when the new guidelines for risk management were announced by the
BIS. This new set of rules was denominated as Basel III requirements and was
accepted two months later in November 2010 during the G20 meeting in Seoul,
South Korea. G20 leaders endorsed the Basel III capital and liquidity framework,
and committed to fully adopt and implement these standards within the agreed
timeframe that is consistent with economic recovery and financial stability – a
finely judged balance. The new framework will be translated into national laws
and regulations, and will be implemented commencing on 1 January 2013 and
fully phased in by 1 January 2019.
As a result of Basel III, the capital ratio requirement has increased; the eli-
gibility of capital has been tightened, thus reducing the amount of capital banks
have to meet the required ratio; and the calculation of RWAs has changed lead-
ing to an increase for many institutions. Although implementing Basel III has its
challenges and may ultimately not be sufficient to help banks globally withstand
another financial blow, it is hoped that the new Accord will improve banking con-
fidence and increase competition between banks. To achieve these objectives, the
BCBS Basel III proposals are broken down into three main areas, as shown in
Figure 4.2, that address:
(i) Capital reform (including quality and quantity of capital, complete risk cov-
erage, leverage ratio and the introduction of capital conservation buffers and
a counter-cyclical capital buffer);
(ii) Liquidity reform (short-term and long-term ratios); and
(iii) Other elements relating to general improvements to the stability of the finan-
cial system.
The implications of Basel III for capital can be summarised as in Equation 4.2:
Equation 4.2 Implications of Basel III for capital
Capital ratio
=
Eligible Capital
Risk-weighted assets

--- Página 159 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
143
Basel III
Capital reform
Quality, consistency and
transparency of capital base
Capturing of all risks
Controlling leverage
Buffers
Liquidity standards
Systemic risk and
interconnectedness
Capital incentives for
using CCPs for OTC
Higher capital for
systemic derivatives
Higher capital for
inter financial exposures
Contingent capital
Capital surcharge for
systemic banks
Short term: liquidity
coverage ratio (LCR)
Long term: Net stable
funding ratio (NSFR)
FIGURE 4.2
Main components of the Basel III Accord
Source: Authors’ analysis based on Basel III Framework from BIS
It should be noted that in general Basel III aims at reducing procyclicality and
promoting counter-cyclical buffers through a combination of forward-looking pro-
visioning and capital buffers. While considering Basel III directionally positive,
Moody’s (2011b) does not expect it to cure the structural challenges banks face
from a credit perspective, including illiquidity and high leverage levels, as well as
the tension between equity holders and bank managers whose focus is on max-
imising profits, in contrast to risk-averse bondholders.
IFSB PRINCIPLES ON CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Since Basel II did not answer all the risk management issues for IFIs, there has
been a need for alternative and supportive standards, as “Basel II was drafted with
conventional banking very much in mind”, as observed by Lowe (2010).
With the growing size of IFIs all over the world, there have been efforts to
develop prudent supervisory norms. Thinking along the lines of Basel II and
recognising the differences in the nature of Islamic banks, AAOIFI drafted a
basic standard on capital adequacy of IFIs in 1999. This standard was further
enhanced by the IFSB, which in December 2005 released the Guiding Principles
of Risk Management for Institutions (Other than Insurance Institutions) Offer-
ing Only Islamic Financial Services (IFSB-1). Also in December 2005, the IFSB
issued the first Capital Adequacy Standards for Institutions (Other than Insur-
ance Institutions) Offering Only Islamic Financial Services (IFSB-2). This was

--- Página 160 ---
144
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
complemented in March 2008 with the IFSB’s Guidance Note in Connection with
the Capital Adequacy Standard: Recognition of Ratings by External Credit Assess-
ment Institutions (ECAIs) on Shari’ah-Compliant Financial Institutions (GN-1).
Finally, in January 2009 the IFSB issued Capital Adequacy Requirements for
Sukuk Securitisations and Real Estate Investment (IFSB-7), which deals with
aspects relating to regulatory capital requirements for sukuk that are not covered
in the previous issued standards.
Such intensive documentation is well prepared and addresses the relevant
issues that are fundamental for the successful application of Basel II to IFIs. Archer
and Karim (2007) highlight that, in spite of their high quality, these standards have
been adopted in only a handful of countries. As with most standards, the respective
banking regulators need to customise some of their own requirements.
The IFSB Standard on Capital Adequacy (IFSB-2) highlights that Islamic
banks carry partnership and PLS assets that have a higher risk profile, and that
Islamic banks do not have well-defined instruments for mitigating and hedg-
ing risks. In the case of partnership-based contracts such as mudarabah and
musharakah, the bank is exposed to both credit and market risk that need to be
analysed in a similar manner to the methodology of the Basel Accords. When
such partnership-based assets are acquired in the form of tangible assets, such
as commodities, and are held for trading, the only exposure is to market risk
because credit risk is minimised by direct ownership of the assets. However, there
is significant risk of capital impairment when direct investment takes place in
such contracts and the investments will be held until maturity. Treatment of this
risk within the Basel Framework is not straightforward and therefore requires
special attention.
The key principle underlying the IFSB’s approach is that PERs (and PSIAs
overall) have a loss-absorbing feature, the intensity of which would not merit
inclusion in eligible capital (the numerator of Basel II’s capital adequacy ratio),
but rather would allow for some deductions from computed RWAs (the denom-
inator of Basel II’s capital adequacy ratio), depending on the conservativeness
of the regulator in terms of the degree to which PSIAs and PERs would be
deemed capital-like instruments. PERs being a future claim of PSIA holders
on the bank, they are not part of capital in accounting terms, and thus are not
subject to distribution to shareholders. From a regulatory perspective, however,
the treatment suggested by the IFSB is very subtle, particularly in Western
jurisdictions.
The IFSB-2 Standard covers minimum capital adequacy requirements based
predominantly on the SA for credit risk with respect to Pillar 1 of Basel II,
and the various applicable measurement methods for market risk set out in
the 1996 Market Risk Amendment. The IFSB is aware of the fact that some
Islamic banks are progressively improving their risk management practices to the

--- Página 161 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
145
extent that they will be in a position to meet the requirement for applying the
Internal Models Approach for measuring their risk exposures.
The IFSB (2005b) states that: “While this Standard stops short of explain-
ing approaches other than the Standardised approach, supervisory authorities are
welcome to use other approaches for regulatory capital purposes if they have the
ability to address the infrastructure issues adequately. The IFSB will monitor these
developments and plans to consult the industry in the future and eventually to make
any necessary revisions.”
In respect of capital charge for operational risk, the IFSB Standard recom-
mends using either the BIA or the SA given the structure of business lines of
Islamic banks at the present stage. The Standard also recommends excluding the
share of PSIA holders from gross income in determining capital charge for opera-
tional risk. This adjustment is necessary because Islamic banks share these profits
with their depositors/investors.
Moreover, the Standard does not address the requirements covered by Pillar 2
(Supervisory Review Process) and Pillar 3 (Market Discipline) of Basel II, as the
IFSB intends to cover these two issues in separate standards.
This Standard comprehensively discusses the nature of risks and the appro-
priate risk weights to be used for different assets. It deals with the minimum
capital adequacy requirement for both credit and market risks of seven Shari’ah-
compliant instruments: (i) murabahah, (ii) salam, (iii) istisna’a, (iv) ijarah,
(v) musharakah and diminishing musharakah, (vi) mudarabah and (vii) sukuk.
Discussion of each contract includes risk weights to be assigned to each for
market and credit risks.
In calculating the CAR, the regulatory capital as the numerator shall be cal-
culated in relation to the total RWAs as the denominator. The total of RWAs is
determined by multiplying the capital requirements for market risk and opera-
tional risk by 12.5 (which is the reciprocal of the minimum CAR of 8%) and
adding the resulting figures to the sum of RWAs computed for credit risk. The
minimum capital adequacy requirements for Islamic banks shall be a CAR of not
lower than 8% of its total capital. In this, Tier 2 capital is limited to 100% of
Tier 1 capital.
The Shari’ah rules and principles, whereby IAHs provide funds to the
Islamic bank on the basis of profit-sharing and loss-bearing mudarabah con-
tracts instead of debt-based deposits, mean that the IAHs would share in the
profits of a successful operation, but could lose all or part of their investments.
The liability of the IAHs is limited to the capital provided, and the poten-
tial loss of the Islamic bank is restricted to the value or opportunity cost of
its work.
In other words, the assets financed by IAHs are excluded from the calculation
of the capital ratio, considering that IAHs directly share in the profits and losses

--- Página 162 ---
146
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
IFSB Standard Formula for CAR
Eligible Capital
Total RWAs
PLUS
Operational risk
MINUS
Total RWAs
funded by PSIAs
Note: Risk weighting includes weights for marked and credit risks. PSIA balances
include PER and IRR.
FIGURE 4.3
IFSB standard formula for calculating CAR
of those assets, and the loss to the bank (as mudarib) is limited to the time and
resources spent on the investments, except in the case of negligence or misconduct.
However, if negligence, mismanagement, fraud or breach of contract condi-
tions can be proven, the Islamic bank will be financially liable for the capital of the
IAHs. Therefore, IAHs normally bear the credit and market risks of the investment,
while the Islamic bank bears the operational risk.
The IFSB Standard is defined in two formulae: standard and discretionary.
In the standard formula, depicted by Figure 4.3, capital is divided by RWAs exclud-
ing the assets financed by IAHs, based on the rationale explained earlier. The size
of the RWAs is determined for credit risk first then adjusted to accommodate for
the market and operational risks. To determine the adjustment, the capital require-
ments for market risk and operational risk are multiplied by 12.5 (which is the
reciprocal of the minimum CAR of 8%).
The second formula, depicted by Figure 4.4, is referred to as the supervi-
sory discretion formula, and is modified to accommodate the existence of reserves
maintained by Islamic banks to minimise displaced commercial, withdrawal and
systematic risks. In jurisdictions where an Islamic bank has practised the type of
income smoothing for IAHs, the supervisory authority has discretion to require
the Islamic bank to include a specified percentage of assets financed by PSIA in
the denominator of the CAR (represented by α in the Supervisory Discretion For-
mula). α is simply the percentage of depositors’ risk absorbed by the Islamic bank
as a percentage of capital required for assets funded by PSIAs. This would apply
to RWAs financed by both unrestricted and restricted PSIAs. Further adjustment is
made for PER and Investment Risk Reserves (IRRs) in such a manner that a certain
fraction of the RWAs funded by the reserves is deducted from the denominator.
The rationale given for this adjustment is to allow central banks and supervisors

--- Página 163 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
147
IFSB Supervisory Discretion Formula for CAR
Eligible Capital
Note: Risk weighting includes weights for marked and credit risks. PSIA balances
include PER and IRR. α refers to the proportion of assets funded by PSIAs, which
is to be determined by the supervisory authorities. The value of α normally does not
exceed 30%.
Total RWAs
PLUS
Operational risk
MINUS
1. (1-α) X Total RWAs
   funded by PSIAs
2. α X RWAs
 funded by PER and IRR
FIGURE 4.4
IFSB supervisory discretion formula for calculating CAR
to decide on the profit-sharing/loss-bearing risk (displaced commercial risk) that
IFIs are exposed to. For instance, the Bahrain Central Bank has ruled α to be 30%
for the kingdom (Farook, 2008:19–20). This implies that PSIAs will bear up to
70% of their losses, while the remaining 30% will be borne by the shareholders of
the bank.
However, what if an individual IFI is more resistant to shocks in the local
economy because it already undertakes pure performance-based PLS with PSIAs,
i.e. the IFI has a lower displaced commercial risk? Farook (2008:19) argues that
the supervisory discretion formula is applied on a jurisdictional basis, and assumes
that all IFIs in that particular jurisdiction fit into the ‘one-size-fits-all’ category.
He adds that most central banks that have applied this regulation did so in such
a manner, and there is nothing particularly wrong with this in the absence of a
better indicator of individual displaced commercial risk exposure. For example,
the Central Bank of Kuwait approved the implementation of the amended capital
adequacy ratio on local Islamic banks starting from 30 June 2009, aiming to give
Islamic banks incentives to improve their ways of managing risks.
Table 4.2 summarises the main differences in Capital Adequacy Standards
between Basel II and IFSB
The following example, depicted by Figure 4.5, demonstrates the difference
in calculating CAR between Basel II and IFSB. Let us assume that bank A is
an Islamic bank with the following balance sheet structure and that its regulator
requires supervisory authority discretion (α) of 25%. The example proves that the
risk-sharing characteristic of PSIAs requires special capital treatment. Calculating
the bank’s capital adequacy requirements according to the IFSB Standard formula

--- Página 164 ---
148
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 4.2
Capital Adequacy Standards: Basel II versus IFSB
Capital Adequacy Standards for Credit Risk
Criteria
Basel II
IFSB
Risk weight
Calibrated on the basis of
external ratings by the
Basel Committee
Calibrated on the basis of
external ratings by the Basel
Committee; varies according to
contract stage and financing
mode
Treatment of equity
in the banking book
>= 150% for venture
capital and private equity
investments
Simple risk weight method (risk
weight 300 or 400%) or
supervisory slotting method (risk
weight 90–270%)
Credit risk
mitigation
techniques
Includes financial
collateral, credit
derivatives, guarantees,
netting (on and off
balance sheet)
Includes profit-sharing
investment accounts (PSIAs), or
cash on deposits with Islamic
banks, guarantees, financial
collateral and pledged assets
Capital Adequacy Standards for Market Risk
Criteria
Basel II
IFSB
Category
Equity, foreign exchange,
interest rate risk in the
trading book,
commodities
Equity, foreign exchange,
interest rate risk in the trading
book, commodities, inventories
Measurement
1996 market risk
amendments (standardised
and internal models)
1996 market risk amendments
(standardised measurement
method)
Capital Adequacy Standards for Operational Risk
Criteria
Basel II
IFSB
Gross income
Annual average gross
income (previous three
years)
Annual average gross income
(previous three years), excluding
PSIA holders’ share of income
Source: Combined analysis based on IFSB (2008b) and BCBS (2006). Reproduced with permission
from Islamic Financial Services Board.
lead to a higher CAR than for Basel II, meaning that Islamic banks that invest
in partnership and PLS assets will have a better CAR due to the loss-absorbing
feature of these asset classes. Figure 4.5 also demonstrates that calculating an
Islamic bank’s CAR according to the IFSB supervisory discretion formula is
more practical, as the supervisory discretion formula is modified to accom-
modate the existence of reserves maintained by IFIs to minimise displaced

--- Página 165 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
149
Assets
Liabilities & Equity
£ mn
£ mn
Commodity murabahah
£150 Demand deposits
£150
Mudarahah investments
£100 Unrestricted PSIAs
£400
Musharakah investments
£120 Restricted PSIAs
£350
Trade financing
£400 PER
£40
Salam & Istisna’a
£100 IRR
£50
Ijarah
£150 Shareholders’ Capital
£30
Total assets
£1,020 Total liab. & equity
£1,020
Total RWAs
£250
RWAs financed by PSIAs
£150
RWAs financed by PER and IRR
£15
Supervisory authority discretion (α)
25%
Market risk
£4
Operational risk
£2
Market and operational risk capital
charge
£75
(4 × 12.5 + 2 × 12.5)
FIGURE 4.5
Computation of CAR for an Islamic bank
commercial and withdrawal. When an Islamic bank has practised income
smoothing for IAHs, the supervisory authority has discretion to require the
Islamic bank to include a specified percentage of assets financed by PSIAs in the
denominator of the CAR (represented by α). The IFSB supervisory discretion
formula therefore gives a natural incentive to IFIs to engage in providing true
economic returns to PSIAs and to stop the smoothing practice.
Equation 4.3 CAR according to Basel II Accord Pillar 1
£30 mn
£250 mn + £75 mn = 9.23%
Equation 4.4 CAR according to IFSB Standard Formula
£30 mn
(£250 mn + £75 mn) −(£150 mn + £15 mn)
= 18.75%

--- Página 166 ---
150
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Equation 4.5 CAR according to IFSB Supervisory Discretion Formula
£30 mn
(£250 mn + £75 mn) −(0.75 × £150 mn −0.25 × £15 mn) = 13.87%
As Wan Yusuf (2011) states, the capital adequacy framework for Islamic
banks in Malaysia was implemented on 1 January 2008 and was developed based
on the Capital Adequacy Standard for Institutions (other than Insurance Institu-
tions) Offering Only Islamic Financial Services issued by the IFSB in December
2005. The Malaysia Framework is applicable to all Islamic banks licensed under
Section 3 (4) of the Islamic Banking Act 1983. The analysis conducted on
12 Islamic banks shows that all banks follow the Capital Adequacy Framework
for Islamic banking in Malaysia. The exception was in 2006, when Bank Islam
fell below the requirements due to net loss of RM 1.30 billion. It was attributed
to non-performing loans that severely affected the bank. However, the figure was
improved to exceed the minimum regulatory requirement after additional capital
injection. The analysis showed that banks in the study were over-capitalised. The
excess capital could be used to reallocate assets where they could shift to more
risky assets such as loans rather than less risky assets such as government bonds.
This in turn would increase banks’ profitability and thus enhance their efficiency
by optimal utilisation of available resources. The study also revealed that domestic
Islamic banks in Malaysia hold lower Risk-Weighted Capital Ratio compared
to foreign Islamic banks, which can be attributed to familiarity with the local
financial environment. It means that foreign Islamic banks are over-capitalised
especially in the early years of establishment. The assets that banks hold tend
to be under a safer risk category and the bank moves toward riskier assets as it
gains a foothold in the industry. Not much difference exists between fully fledged
Islamic banks such as Bank Islam Malaysia Berhad and Bank Muamalat Malaysia
Berhad, which were established before 2003, and Islamic banks originated from
Islamic banking windows, which were established after 2003, with regard to
Risk-Weighted Capital Ratio. This could be due to the parent banks’ familiarity
with the local financial environment and understanding of the Malaysian financial
system. Experience and familiarity leads banks to have a wider portfolio of riskier
assets in order to fully utilise capital and enhance efficiency.
CAPITAL ADEQUACY AS A TOOL FOR RISK
MITIGATION
As discussed in the previous chapter, risk mitigation is a key challenge for Islamic
banks. Mimicking conventional risk mitigation techniques is not the best way for-
ward because of the constraints imposed on Islamic banking by Shari’ah principles

--- Página 167 ---
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
151
and mainly because the Wall Street conventional banking model has proved to be
unstable and unsustainable. Some Islamic hedging tools have been developed; oth-
ers are still work in progress, opening the door for huge opportunities in financial
engineering. However, the risk-sharing characteristic of PSIAs in Islamic bank-
ing could greatly enhance risk management and mitigation in IFIs provided that
proper pricing, reserving and disclosure are maintained. A measure of the extent to
which the risks to shareholders are reduced on account of risk-sharing with IAHs
should be the basis of any capital relief or lower risk weights on assets funded by
PSIAs. The IFSB supervisory discretion formula is therefore a step in the right
direction, with α representing the extent of total risk assumed by the PSIAs, with
the remainder absorbed by the shareholders on account of displaced commercial
risk. To take the IFSB standards forward, disclosure for IFIs needs to become
more comprehensive and transparent, with a focus on disclosure of risk profile,
risk-return mix and internal governance. This requires coordination of supervisory
disclosure rules and accounting standards. In addition, the regulators should mon-
itor and recognise the actual extent of risk-sharing by IAHs in assessing capital
adequacy, and thereby encourage more effective and transparent risk-sharing with
IAHs. Adequate disclosure by the IFI of the risks borne by PSIAs and sharehold-
ers should be a supervisory requirement for giving a low value to the parameter
in the supervisory discretion. Thus, inadequate disclosure would result in a high
value being set for α in addition to higher risk weights for profit-sharing assets, and
hence granting little or no capital relief to the Islamic bank. In addition, Islamic
banks that treat PSIAs as a substitute for conventional deposits should be dealt
with by the regulator by treating these IAHs in the same way as liabilities for the
purpose of calculating capital adequacy ratio. On the other hand, banks that prac-
tically implement the risk-sharing technique will be keen on proper disclosure to
enjoy higher capital relief. This would provide the greatest risk mitigation tool for
Islamic banks.
CONCLUSION
It should be noted that risks in Islamic banking are more contract-centric than
in conventional banking, where risks tend to be more product-centric. Islamic
financial contracts are characterised by the changing relationship between the con-
tracting parties during the lifetime of the contract. This has a direct bearing on the
risk exposures and relevant capital charges. Soundness and safety for banks depend
to a great extent on the capital they hold. Since there is a constant dilemma to find
the optimal mix of capital for business and regulatory purposes, the Basel I Accord
was the first-ever systematic attempt at a global level to provide a framework
for capital adequacy. Due to the rapid changes in the financial world, the origi-
nal Accord proved to be insufficient to cover increasing complexities in financial

--- Página 168 ---
152
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
markets. Basel II (and potentially Basel III) revolutionised the concept of risk
management with the detailed analysis of credit, market and operational risks.
The three mutually enforcing Pillars of Basel II have improved the Framework’s
sensitivity to the risks that banks actually face.
This chapter examined the three Pillars of Basel II and their relevance to
Islamic banks. It has become obvious that, although some of the principles of
risk management as proposed in Basel II are applicable to the Islamic financial
industry, the Accord was developed with the perspective of conventional banks
and, hence, does not apply to Islamic banks without suitable modifications.
The IFSB has played a key role in the development of risk management and
capital adequacy standards in the Islamic financial industry. The IFSB’s efforts
should be considered as the first attempt at consolidating the Islamic financial risk
management principles under one umbrella. More effort and research is needed
in this underresearched area. Moreover, the IFSB standards should be made
mandatory for Islamic banks to allow for wider implementation, consistency
and standardisation of risk management principles across the IFI. This requires
collaboration between regulators, IFSB, AAOIFI, Islamic banks and industry
experts.
It should be mentioned that Sam Walton was indeed right, as finding capital
is not the biggest challenge. It is the management and control of capital in an
optimum way that worries financial institutions and regulators around the world.
International standards like those issued by BCBS, AAOIFI and the IFSB act as
capital guides that provide industry practitioners with vision for the right direction.
It is up to individual banks to make proper use of the compass or lose their way
along the hard financial journey.

--- Página 169 ---
CHAPTER5
Islamic Banking and the
Financial Crisis
Clearly, the crisis is dire. The situation is deteriorating, and it demands
urgent and immediate action
—Barack Obama, on the economic crisis (2009)
T
here has been great optimism about the resilience of Islamic finance over the
past few years due to the failures witnessed in the conventional financial world;
this is, however, based on prejudice rather than proper analysis. Although this opti-
mism has faded out recently, it still exists to a lesser degree. Immediately following
the outbreak of the credit crisis in the West, advocates of Islamic finance filled
stages and conferences with long emotional speeches on topics like: ‘the resilience
of the Islamic financial industry’, ‘Islamic banking is recession-proof’, ‘Islamic
finance could have saved the world’, etc. In such emotional discourses it is for-
gotten that modern Islamic financial institutions (IFIs) have been deviating from
the foundational principles and aspirations of Islamic moral economy for some
time now – principles which could, to a certain degree, provide some resilience
against crisis. In theory, the Islamic finance world is definitely more resilient to
economic shocks than the flawed Wall Street model, but unfortunately theory is a
long way from fact in current financial practice, as practitioners of Islamic finance
to date have been mimicking conventional products. This mimicking has resulted
in a close correlation between the two systems.
However, it is evident that Islamic banking has avoided some of the major
causes of the problems in the conventional system, especially in relation to
speculation and trading in derivative instruments that are far removed from
the underlying asset. It is not because IFIs’ risk management architecture and
culture were more robust that they avoided carrying toxic products on their
books; structurally, they have simply been banned – so far – from investing
in such asset classes, as per the core principles they abide by. It is true that
most Islamic deals are backed by real assets. There is no doubt that Islamic
153

--- Página 170 ---
154
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
banks are more resilient to economic shocks than their conventional peers. This
was proven in Malaysia during the 1997 currency crisis and it has been confirmed
by the delayed effect of the current financial crisis on Islamic banking and finance
(IBF). This has changed the world’s perception of this young industry and given
it the chance to grow substantially.
It has been argued that if the world had followed the true principles of Islamic
finance, the subprime loan crisis and the collapse of some of the world’s largest
banks could have been avoided. This raises the interesting question of whether
Islamic finance can offer solutions to avoid another global financial crisis. Are
the risk management characteristics inherent in Islamic finance more resistant to
global woes and economic shocks? Since risk management is essential to prevent
crisis, raising such questions is imperative in gauging the resilience of a particular
financial method. This is the essential research question of this book, which aims
to empirically explore whether Islamic banking provides a more resilient model.
The relevant Western literature suggests that, theoretically, Islamic banks
are more risky than their conventional counterparts in some respects. Western
researchers have been urging Islamic banks to follow the steps of conventional
banks in adopting sophisticated risk management and mitigation techniques,
which have been the pride of Western financial markets until recently. On the
other hand, in most literature by Islamic scholars or economists, Islamic banking
is presented as a safe haven and a less risky mode of finance. In such studies,
one tends to read about the relative benefits of the Islamic economic system,
albeit completely normative statements based on theoretical principles without
any substantial empirical evidence. Islamic researchers argue that the lack of
evidence is due to the absence of real economy that follows full Islamic principles
and where economies do, such as in the case of Iran and Sudan, there have been
lapses in governance or modifications in the Shari’ah compliance rules that have
substantially altered the actual premise of Islamic economics. Hence, researchers
were largely unable to empirically detect the impact of following pure Islamic
finance principles or to ascertain whether Islamic finance is inherently better than
its conventional counterpart. The answer came – paradoxically from the West – in
the form of the credit crunch, which has at least shown the shortcomings of the
conventional system and has given Islamic finance an opportunity to be marketed
as an alternative.
Over the last few years the world economy went into severe recession, start-
ing with the subprime mortgage debt write-downs in the US and the spiralling
food and commodity price inflation, followed by quick deflation, all of which
have had a crippling effect on world economies. Figure 5.1 shows the bleak eco-
nomic picture worldwide in September 2009, amid the peak of the crisis. Most
world economies were in recession. The cost of debt had increased and therefore
access to finance had dried up. So what are the causes of this crisis and where is

--- Página 171 ---
World recession in 2009
Economic conditions by country in 2009*
Expanding
In recession
At risk
Real GDP
growth
The largest most developed economies
were the most affected by the crisis in 2009
Some of the developing & frontier markets
actually witnessed an expansion during
2009
Most of the economies exhibited a
recession during 2009
All
European
countries
All North
American
countries
FIGURE 5.1
World recession in 2009
*The position of the country’s flag within the chart only indicates whether it has witnessed an expansion, recession or was at risk during
2009. Hence, it does not highlight each country’s level of real GDP growth.
Source: Authors’ analysis based on figures from Moody economy.com Dismal Scientist, status September 2009
155

--- Página 172 ---
156
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
the connection to Islamic banking? These are the questions to which this chapter
aims to find answers; and building on what has been discussed in the previous
chapters, evidence will emerge that Islamic finance has conservative risk manage-
ment techniques – implicitly bent to it – that could provide a safer alternative.
UNDERSTANDING THE CREDIT CRISIS
The Debt Bubble
The financial crisis started in one corner of the US mortgage market, but the fall-
out from the collapse of the subprime lending bubble has spread across the globe
via the disintermediation of the originate-to-distribute banking model. What began
as a crisis for individual markets and institutions has now undermined the foun-
dations of the entire global financial system. Credit markets were the first to be
engulfed, but the contagion subsequently reached all asset classes that were reliant
on a combination of cheap money and high leverage, bringing the demise of the
independent Wall Street investment banking model and sending countries from
Iceland to Hungary ‘cap-in-hand’ to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
In the period of the run up to the crisis, the US and the global economy
displayed robust growth, which was expected to continue. Interest rates were
low, liquidity was high and growing, financial innovations were proceeding at a
rapid pace (especially in securitisation and structure finance), complacency in
the face of growing risk was deepening, and regulation as well as supervision
receding and weakening. All of this created an incentive structure that encouraged
excessive risk-taking in search of higher yields. By March of 2007, the excesses
“came home to roost” (Mirakhor and Krichene, 2009). Easy credit had already
created an incentive for home purchases and refinancing of existing mortgages,
while prices in the housing market were already increasing, indicating a boom.
This provided the primary motivation for the emergence of the subprime market,
for, as long as house prices were increasing, the underlying debt obligation
would be continuously validated by an increase in value regardless of the
size of the down payment, the credit record of the buyer, or the adequacy of
documentation.
The liquidity crunch was fundamentally the result of the credit bubble burst-
ing. Too much liquidity and overcapacity in the industry resulted in much lower
underwriting standards. Consequently, consumers became overleveraged. With
new entrants in both the mortgage lending and bank loan markets, competition led
to loan terms that did not compensate for the risks. In this process, the risk man-
agement model followed by financial institutions is to be blamed for the crisis, as
rising risk and falling returns became a dangerous mix.
It should be mentioned that the economy is always passing through cycles
in the long term, or what economists call ‘Kondratief cycles’, within which there

--- Página 173 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
157
are other small cycles. The current cycle is not new, nor did it occur overnight
(Economist Intelligence Unit, 2009). Many commentators recognised the poten-
tial consequences long before they became real. Yet the feeling seemed to be that
‘as long as the music was playing, lenders had to dance’. Indeed, a financial insti-
tution cannot afford to sit out the dance unless it can stomach a significant loss
of market share. In a hypercompetitive market, however, banks sometimes have
to take the long-term view and refrain from dancing. Some did, as they shunned
option adjustable-rate mortgages and high loan-to-value products, and their better
performance in the current environment is already beginning to differentiate itself.
Banks around the world have been put under significant pressure; most
affected are those that were originally highly leveraged and heavily dependent on
wholesale funding. A few years ago, it would have been unthinkable that iconic
financial services groups would become so widely distrusted. Regaining this
trust is, however, key to worldwide economic recovery. Figure 5.2 depicts how
the market value of the world’s largest banks had significantly shrunk between
mid-2007 and January 2009. Banking giants saw their market value diminishing
at an unprecedented pace. For example, Royal Bank of Scotland had its market
value shrink from USD 120 billion in mid-2007 to USD 4.6 billion by January
2009; UBS from USD 116 billion to USD 35 billion; HSBC from USD 215 billion
to USD 97 billion; and Citigroup from USD 255 billion to USD 19 billion.
Securitisation channels have shut down in the crisis process from 2008
onward, and banks that rely on the originate-to-distribute model have substan-
tially reduced their volumes of new lending, thus leading to a sharp reduction
in revenues. Some banks, in recent times, are attempting to shift back to a more
traditional on balance sheet banking model. The growth of derivatives during
the boom years decoupled from the growth of the real economy. There will now
be a reduction in that decoupling effect. As a response, indeed, derivatives will
not disappear, but their volumes may shrink and become more aligned with the
size of real economies. However, as a result of the crisis, access to short-term
funding channels has been severely compromised, and a number of banks became
reliant on government support. This opened criticism in the financial industry
of substantial malpractice in highly geared investments and questionable risk
management practices. More importantly, it has raised questions on the integrity
of the sophisticated conventional modern financial system in which regulators are
trying desperately to catch up with market innovations, particularly in the space
of derivatives, debt markets and speculation.
That period in the markets provoked thoughts on failures in conventional risk
management techniques and the need for a better alternative. Therefore, “this crisis
has been a wake-up call for reassessing the effectiveness of international financial
architecture and in particular for mechanisms to head off systemic risk”, stated
Reza Moghadam, director of the IMF’s strategy, policy and review department
(Wroughton, 2009).

--- Página 174 ---
Banks: Market cap in bn
$0
Citi Group
HSBC
JP Morgan
RBS
UBS
Santander
BNP Paribas
Goldman Sachs
Unicredit
Barclays
Societe General
Deutsche Bank
Credit Suisse
Credit Agricole
Morgan Stanly
$50
$100
$150
$200
$250
$300
Market value as of 20 January 2009
Market value as of Q2 2007
Decline in market value of leading banks in 2009
The largest 3 banks in 2007 
witnessed a decline in value of 
around $434 bn
RBS, Citi Group & Barclays 
exhibited the largest % decline 
in value 
($236 bn) 
($118 bn) 
($80 bn) 
(93%)
decline
(96%)
decline
(92%)
decline
($115 bn) 
($81 bn) 
($52 bn) 
($76 bn) 
($65 bn) 
($67 bn) 
($84 bn) 
($54 bn) 
($66 bn) 
($48 bn)
($50 bn) 
($33 bn) 
FIGURE 5.2
Decline in market value of leading banks in 2009
Source: Authors’ analysis based on figures from Bloomberg, 20 January 2009
158

--- Página 175 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
159
It should be noted that the conventional systems have pretty much forgotten
about ethics; this is an important cause of the financial crisis. The fragility of the
conventional system operating on the basis of speculation, manipulation and inter-
est rates was underlined by the infamous 2001 Nobel Prize-winning economist
Joseph Stiglitz (2008) who argued that: “The present financial crisis springs from
a catastrophic collapse in confidence. The banks were laying huge bets with each
other over loans and assets. Complex transactions were designed to move risk and
disguise the sliding value of assets . . . Financial markets hinge on trust, and that
trust has eroded. It was all done in the name of innovation, and any regulatory
initiative was fought away with claims that it would suppress that innovation.”
In addition, the crisis has highlighted shortcomings in banks’ pricing, mon-
itoring and managing of risk. Too much reliance has been placed on quantita-
tive models, based on historical data, to make assessments of current and future
risks. The inappropriate use of financially innovative structured products has led
to tremendous wealth destruction.
The crisis cannot be explained by the argument that it occurred because of
liquidity, which was being there one day and gone the next. When trust and con-
fidence disappeared and investors asked for their money back, it became apparent
that real liquidity had not been created in the first place, a situation that should
not occur under an aspirational Islamic financial system where there is a partner,
rather than a debtor, relationship with depositors.
Derivatives and the Crisis: A Source of the
Financial Crisis
Derivatives are financial weapons of mass destruction . . . I view
derivatives as time bombs, both for the parties that deal in them and the
economic system.
—Warren Buffet, Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report, 2002
Following the outbreak of the crisis, it became fashionable to malign deriva-
tives for doing much damage to the global economy. Politicians and the media held
derivatives responsible for massive corporate losses and the downfall of compa-
nies like insurer AIG and Lehman Brothers. Some have gone so far as to suggest
that derivatives were the main contributing factor to the credit crisis and to the
wider global recession.
Bartram (2009) disagrees with this approach, as he argues that blaming deriva-
tives is like blaming a car for causing a crash, rather than the reckless driver who
was behind the wheel. The cause of the global recession in reality is manifold and
the reason for many corporate failures is varied too, he adds. However, deriva-
tives are complex securities that transfer one kind of risk but create newer risks

--- Página 176 ---
160
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
which are difficult to assess. They break down the relationships between lender
and borrower and encourage risk-taking at the originator level (Ahmed, 2009).
One of the interviewees for this research, Engel (2010), argues that derivatives
should not be blamed for the mess that happened in the financial sector.
As financial products, derivatives are great risk transfer tools: they help stop
systemic collapse in the financial sector. For example, when Enron collapsed,
many feared that several top banks would go under because of their huge exposure
to Enron. It was derivatives that spread the risk among several banks and saved the
system from a total meltdown. While it is true that bankers make derivatives look
very complicated, once they are broken down into little boxes and pieces, their
structure can be understood with greater ease.
Searching for the Causes of the Crisis
A number of economists have tried to determine the causes of the crisis. Some
consider financial liberalisation and deregulation to be the cause in an environment
where the financial systems of many countries are not sound as a result of improper
regulation and supervision. Others feel that the ultimate cause is the bursting of
the speculative bubble in asset prices driven initially by excessive risk-taking and
the use of innovative complex structures. It has also been argued that the root
cause of the crisis was the maturity mismatch and liquidity mismanagement where
long-term assets were far greater than short-term liabilities.
The available literature on the financial crisis thus indicates as many opin-
ions as there are researchers. However, even though all these factors may have
had some role to play in the crisis, no consensus seems to have developed so far
in pinpointing the ultimate cause or the cause of all causes. In the absence of a
proper understanding on the ultimate cause, conflicting remedies have been pro-
posed. Consequently, the proposals for government bailouts, stricter regulations
and supervision have been unable to step beyond the basic principles of the con-
ventional banking mechanism.
In pre-crisis times, most conventional banks employed intense financial-
leveraging techniques to magnify their gains in expansionary economic times.
The use of leverage amplifies returns during a boom cycle, but it can also have a
reverse effect during a recessionary phase when managements not only have to
write down losses on their declining asset portfolios, but also have to pay interest
on their outstanding loans – the exact situation that most conventional banks were
faced with.
Banks created complex opaque financial instruments that produced new risks,
which were not well understood (Ahmed, 2009). This decomposing of risk through
financial engineering and product development made risk management a serious

--- Página 177 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
161
scientific process, as risk management became often dependent on sophisticated
mathematical models.
It had become apparent that, during the process of financial crisis, at many
banks, multiple lines of defence failed – business managers, risk managers, audit
and control. Coupled with these failures was weakness in board risk oversight. The
crisis revealed that very few firms have a true ‘culture’ of risk management that
will not be compromised when competition heats up, regulatory pressure abates
or management changes.
The weaknesses of the system have to be studied in a comprehensive
manner, and as a result of such an approach, the key factors causing the crisis
can be identified at three levels: instrumental (the use of innovative complex
products), organisational (financial institutions engaged in excessive risk-taking)
and regulatory (a deregulated environment and lax regulations) (Ahmed, 2009).
However, the industry debate has focused on pure risk management failures, par-
ticularly the shortcomings of risk models in measuring risks accurately, without
addressing the broader issue of how risk is managed at the highest macroeco-
nomic levels and how the whole financial system is based on greed and lack
of morality.
When the financial crisis erupted, most people referred to ‘greed’ as the source
behind the crisis – the ultimate cause; the worship of markets in general and
financial markets in particular is considered the source of ‘greed’. However, the
main causes stem from the creation of (excessive) debt, de-linkage of wealth
creation from debt creation, and the making of money (debt) by banks, which
may be linked to the ‘greed’ of those involved in such processes. These factors
have led to debts growing faster than wealth, which must eventually be equalised
by a crash resulting in business failures, unemployment and ultimately gross
inequalities of income and wealth. An economy with a heavy reliance on debt
can lead to nothing but high risk and volatility.
After the crisis, the global economy was not expected to rebound quickly,
but rather to return to trend growth rates, with persistent unemployment and
budget deficits. Figure 5.3 offers a stylised illustration of global macroeconomic
and credit conditions over recent years. The financial crisis may be behind us
but the sovereign risk challenges, with huge public debts, definitely represent a
rocky road ahead. World economies went from low risk aversion during the boom
in 2006 to high risk aversion during the peak of the panic in 2009. A decade
later, the worldwide economic recovery remains fragile. Trade and currency wars
between the US and China, the global recession, the budget deficit in the US and
sovereign debt issues in the Eurozone are still sources of high concern to investors.
‘Slowbalisation’ seems to be the name of the game for years to come across
the globe.

--- Página 178 ---
Global macroeconomic and credit conditions
Global economic conditions
Booming
Very
favourable
At 
potential
Challenging
Depressed
Exuberance to 
low risk aversion
Risk 
differentiation to 
high risk aversion
High risk aversion
to panic
High risk aversion
to panic
High risk 
aversion
Risk 
differentiation to 
high risk aversion
2006
2007
2008
H1 2009
H2 2009
2010
FIGURE 5.3
Global economic conditions
Source: Authors’ analysis based on figures from Moody’s (2010a)
162

--- Página 179 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
163
THE FINANCIAL CRISIS AND THE NEED FOR AN
ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM
The crisis highlighted shortcomings in the existing conventional banking system.
Unlike in the wake of earlier crises, the world economy and its financial mar-
kets will not resume their former pattern. The consequences of the crisis indicate
that there will be a fundamental systemic change to the banking industry. In sup-
porting this, a 2009 report by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC, 2009) claimed that
the nature of the banking system will change. Unsustainable, overleveraged struc-
tures will be replaced by simpler and more transparent forms of banking, and some
activities may be subject to limitations in a new model that represents a renaissance
of classical banking. Thus, it is expected that there should be a new financial cul-
ture with a greater focus on ‘what you have’ in terms of resources, rather than
‘what you can’ create through financial innovation (PWC, 2009). The develop-
ments thus show that regulators and financial institutions must look beyond mere
survival mode, accept that the facts have changed, and focus on achieving a sus-
tainable banking model – a model that enjoys trust, is reliable, stable, ethical and
transparent. In other words, the rules of the game have to and will change under the
new circumstances. This is echoed by Keynes: “When the facts change, I change
my mind” (PWC, 2009).
In an attempt to overcome the failures of the conventional financial system, the
world has started to look for an alternative method of banking and finance. Calls
have been promoting traditional old style banking without the destructive power
of derivatives and toxic assets, regulators have been reducing interest rates across
the world, hoping to stimulate the stagnant economy, and experts are starting to
look for a more ethical mode of finance. Amid all these searches, it so happens
that Islamic banking is one of the very few alternatives that are available today,
and within the gloom of the global crisis, investors are turning to Islamic finance
as the less risky and more ethical option. Islamic finance is gaining credibility as
an alternative; the fact that the Wall Street banking model based on open-ended
innovation and leverage failed has made people search for ethical alternatives.
THE FINANCIAL CRISIS AND ISLAMIC FINANCE
AND BANKING AS AN ALTERNATIVE OPTION
Islamic Finance: No Subprime Exposures But Not
Fully Immune
The foundational principles and operational mechanisms of IBF were discussed
in Chapter 2, which made reference to the ethical sources of IBF. Despite such

--- Página 180 ---
164
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
foundational ethical claims, on the surface the story of Islamic banking as more
resilient than conventional banking, which has been repeated in a world torn by
a financial tsunami, is attractive. Unfortunately, at least in the form in which it is
currently practised, such expectations of IBF are not entirely true.
Since the main liquidity for Islamic banks comes from the GCC region, it
should be mentioned that many Islamic banks, especially in the GCC, have not
been immune to the financial crisis. The liquidity squeeze in the region has put
pressure on these banks just as much as on their conventional peers.
In examining the propensity of IBF for crisis, it can be seen that Islamic banks
mainly carry four main asset classes within their investment portfolios: property,
equity, sukuk and managed funds (which include underlying assets mainly com-
prising infrastructure, private equity, real estate and stocks). In the financial crisis
process, it is observed that such assets have all lost value (Moody’s, 2009a). In
addition, the volume of sukuk issuance dramatically declined between September
2008 and summer 2009, although it started to take off later in 2009 (Standard &
Poor’s, 2010a). However, Islamic banks, due to the immaturity of the industry
coupled with constraints imposed by the Shari’ah, have been relatively protected
because they had no exposure to subprime assets and their derivatives, such as
dubiously rated collateralised debt obligations (CDOs) and special investment
vehicles (SIVs) securitised debt-based assets.
Table 5.1 describes the impact of the financial crisis on Islamic banking.
It can be argued that IFIs around the world have generally displayed strong
resilience amid the global financial debacle. One obvious reason for their proven
ability to weather the storm is embedded within the core principles of Islamic
banking: both speculation and interest are prohibited. In addition, the subprime
crisis was driven by a number of factors that in combination led to the accumula-
tion of risks, which were again magnified through the use of complex, often highly
structured financial products – all of which were explicitly riba-based. However,
it may be that the Islamic finance industry was not as badly affected as its conven-
tional counterpart because of its comparative lack of sophistication and Shari’ah
restrictions rather than anything different in its current activities. It is a fact that
re-packaging of debt obligations into several layers without a substantial trace to
the underlying asset is difficult to achieve through Shari’ah engineering. Islamic
securities should be asset-based. Furthermore, a direct link to the asset is the sub-
stantial basis of asset-generating returns. Moreover, Shari’ah disallows the trading
of future obligations until the asset is actually delivered.
Based on the observed progress, it can be argued that IFIs are not
risk-immune, but their capacity to resist the crisis was bolstered by the natural
conservatism inherent in the principles of Islamic finance, which is based on
ethical norms of Islamic moral economy.

--- Página 181 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
165
TABLE 5.1
The impact of the crisis on Islamic banking
The 2008–2009 economic crisis impacted banks globally, with large markets for
Islamic finance no exception
– Global banks suffered USD 700 billion losses in 2008
– GCC economies have also felt the crunch, with little or no growth in 2009
– Equity markets have also seen steep declines in spite of a partial recovery in 2009
– Banks in the GCC have faced challenging times, with scarce liquidity, a rising
perception of risk, and the ever-present reality of credit defaults
Since 2008, Islamic banks have not been immune from the crisis
– Islamic banking penetration is up in key markets with Islamic banks
outperforming in asset growth
– However, both market values and profitability of Islamic banks have come under
pressure, narrowing the gap with conventional peers
■Revenues have declined significantly from 2008, particularly driven by a drop
in income from investing activity
■A number of Islamic banks have been harder hit by non-performing loans
(NPLs) than their conventional peers and continue to face the risk from real
estate concentrations even as their operational efficiency continues to lag that of
their conventional peers
– Liquidity continues to be a significant constraint for Islamic banks. While Islamic
banks maintain their market share of deposits, it will be subject to increased
competition in the ‘war for deposits’
Source: Based on data from McKinsey & Company (2009)
Islamic Banks Affected by the Financial Crisis: No
Man is an Island
Similar to other institutions, Islamic banks do not operate in isolation. They are
part of local, regional and increasingly global interdependent financial markets.
In this respect, although they are less sensitive to the monetary fluctuations of the
West, they remain dependent on the real economic cycle. The Islamic financial
market will always need to interact and engage with the conventional one – it does
not exist in some isolated bubble; therefore some level of ‘contamination’ may be
difficult to avoid.
The credit crisis highlighted the globalised nature of the world we live in:
imagining that a subprime crisis could never happen in Islamic finance would
be to encourage complacency. As the financial crisis gradually turned into a real
economic downturn, asset quality ultimately deteriorated and Islamic banks’ high
exposures to the real estate sector turned out to be a curse rather than a bless-
ing. For example, the Gulf countries now contemplate the effects of property and
stock market declines coupled with lower economic growth prospects in the short

--- Página 182 ---
166
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
term, and Islamic and conventional institutions alike are feeling the pain of reduced
liquidity and credit losses. This is due to the fact that the global financial and eco-
nomic crisis did not spare the once-booming economies of the Middle East, and
the Gulf Arab states in particular. However, in general, the macroeconomic reper-
cussions were milder in the region, where recovering oil prices and large amounts
of liquidity in numerous Sovereign Wealth Funds allowed governments to take
interventionist counter-cyclical measures to stimulate their domestic economies
and support flagship government-owned banks and companies.
As such, Islamic banks have been facing three series of cyclical challenges,
which again reflect their current structural strengths and weaknesses (Moody’s,
2009c):
(i) Managing short-term liquidity has been made more difficult.
(ii) Investment portfolios, concentrated on illiquid and cyclical asset classes, have
been impaired.
(iii) Access to long-term funding has been postponed, forcing banks to reduce the
maturity profile of their assets.
With the financial crisis, market disruptions made it difficult for Islamic banks
to continue fuelling their aggressive pre-crisis growth as key funding sources dried
up. Customer deposits shrank as money that had entered in 2008 left the market
leaving governments to prop up deposits single-handedly, and IFIs, particularly in
the GCC, started to raise deposit rates to ensure retention. Governments stepped
in to ease short-term liquidity positions; however, this did not alleviate the overall
long-term position gap. To help manage their liquidity, Islamic banks will have
to develop creative funding strategies and improve their internal capabilities to
understand and forecast their liquidity needs.
However, despite such constraints, which are expected to be temporary,
Islamic banks have had the capacity to resist due to a number of buffers in the
following format:
(i) Their credit portfolios have been essentially domestic, with limited pressure
on asset quality so far.
(ii) Their entrenchment in the retail banking arena, with high customer loyalty and
deposit stability, limits the probability of massive bank runs.
(iii) High capitalisation and ample core liquidity often provide a relatively higher
amount of confidence to counterparts.
In the economic downturn, falling asset prices, credit seizures and liquid-
ity crunches created a difficult situation where retail-funded commercial Islamic
banks are better placed than their rivals. They enjoy low leverage and abundant

--- Página 183 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
167
liquidity. Islamic investment banks, meanwhile, are wholesale-funded with a con-
centrated deposit base and are also highly exposed to cyclical and illiquid asset
classes such as real estate, private equity and venture capital. Consequently, they
have suffered far more, with two of them defaulting: Global Investment House
and The Investment Dar, both within the GCC. Another Islamic finance company
whose survival has come under pressure for the same reasons is Tamweel, which
is merging with its rival Amlak in the United Arab Emirates.
In general, Islamic banking had shown stronger performance than conven-
tional banking. In 2009, amid the peak of the global crisis, more Shari’ah banks
were launched and more markets opened up to Islamic products. While most con-
ventional banks suffered substantial losses and severe asset reductions, assets in
Islamic finance grew to USD 822 billion in 2009, an increase of 29% compared
with 2008, with the opening of 20 Islamic banks, according to Maris Strategies
and the Banker (Oakley, 2009).
Traditionally, IFIs have not been heavily leveraged. The primary reasons for
conservative financial leverage maintenance are:
(i) IFIs have limited incentives to grow debt-like liabilities because their assets
tend to be highly profitable;
(ii) They needed to set aside extra capital buffers to prepare for expansion;
(iii) Funding is usually cheap, thanks to easy access to non-remunerated qardh
hasan current account deposits; and
(iv) The necessity to set aside capital charges for specific risks like displaced com-
mercial risk (DCR), reputational risk and concentration risks as per Basel II’s
Pillar 2 (Moody’s, 2009d).
These capital and liquidity buffers, previously criticised by opponents
of Islamic finance as a burden on profitability, have perhaps been one of the
most important strengths of the IFIs amid the crisis because they provided a
financial institution with surplus cash to use as a shock absorber. As a result,
under the difficult economic conditions of the crisis, most IFIs were able to seek
out opportunities by using their surplus liquidity to aggressively boost deposit
volumes and thus to increase their market shares by growing lending volumes,
while maintaining their focus on the retail and corporate sectors. For example, this
is a strategy employed by GCC banks to de-couple their retail lending business
from global markets by focusing on extending credit locally. According to Thun
(2010), one of the interviewees for this research, with few exceptions (especially
in Dubai), funding has been less of a constraint for IFIs because of the market’s
perception that these players will be more resilient than their conventional peers
to global credit turmoil. Thus, the market has acknowledged that Islamic banks
cannot carry assets such as highly leveraged structured instruments or global

--- Página 184 ---
168
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
investment banks’ shares on their balance sheets because these are considered
haram and therefore are not eligible for investment according to the Shari’ah
boards’ fatawa.
In practice, customers are switching their savings from conventional banks
(perceived as riskier) to Islamic banks (perceived as less directly exposed to sub-
prime). This activity has been recorded in a number of countries, especially the
UAE, Kuwait and Bahrain. The latest figures on these banks show an increase of
34.4% in their Q3 2008 deposit base over the previous year (Moody’s, 2009a).
This retail entrenchment is a good strategic shift – one suitable for the current
environment with wholesale funding restricted and liquidity ratios lower (albeit
not severely so).
Moreover, wholesale-funded IFIs were affected by their inability to access
the retail deposit segment for funding, as retail deposits are more granular, more
stable and cheaper, while wholesale depositors are savvy and constantly arbitrage
institutions in need of funding. It is no coincidence that Islamic intermediaries like
Global Investment House (GIH) in the field of merchant banking and Amlak and
Tamweel in specialised mortgage finance found it extremely difficult to fund their
businesses (Alvi, 2009a).
Islamic investment banks that operate largely as private equity firms have
been feeling the impact of global market conditions because they have invested in
real estate markets and companies outside the Gulf region, through private equity
transactions. Falling real estate prices, the credit crunch, and the economic reces-
sion in Europe and the US lessened the value of these investments and pushed
these Islamic investment banks to either enlist their generally sophisticated clients’
support to share any losses or to write down losses to preserve their reputations.
Effectively illustrating this is Arcapita Bank, which reported significantly deteri-
orated liquidity; its 2008 financial performance declined versus historical levels,
and between January and June 2009 its credit rating was downgraded by Standard
& Poor’s from BBB to BB-; this is a four-notch downgrade in less than six months.
In June 2009, Arcapita requested to withdraw its rating.
Although GCC countries, home to most IFIs, announced that they stand
ready to support their financial systems if needed, providing support to IFIs is
more complicated than for conventional banks, because governments are limited
to using the same mechanisms as those for conventional institutions. For instance,
interest-based repo facilities or traditional deposits are not Shari’ah-compliant,
which by definition implies limitations on the instruments that governments have
to intervene with the liquidity of Islamic banks. The UAE has based its support
for IFIs on wakala, which has required some time to implement (Standard &
Poor’s, 2010a).

--- Página 185 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
169
Failures in Islamic Finance: Sukuk Defaults
Defaults in the sukuk market are a sign of market maturity; however, it
comes at severe costs, the most expensive of which is reputational risk.
—Badlisyah Abdul-Ghani, CEO of CMB Islamic Bank (2009)
Sukuk issuers such as the Kuwait-based Investment Dar Company defaulted
on their sukuk as part of a general debt restructuring program. Another noticeable
example is the Saudi Arabia-based Saad Group, which defaulted on its debt
in the recent past, including the Golden Belt sukuk that it issued in 2007. This
was followed by the Dubai debt bombshell, which put sukuk in the spotlight for
all the wrong reasons. Nakheel, the property arm of Dubai World, responsible
for key developments in the region such as the Jumeira Palm and The World,
issued three sukuk to finance its investments. Three years after issuing the world’s
biggest sukuk, Dubai’s Nakheel grabbed the headlines once again, this time
through default. On 25 November 2009, the Government of Dubai announced
that it intended to restructure part of the debt (approximately USD 26 billion)
of Dubai World, the Emirate’s largest state-owned conglomerate. Nakheel asked
for trading to be suspended on all three of its listed sukuk until it was in a
position to provide clarification to investors and the market. On 14 December
2009, Abu Dhabi provided USD 10 billion to help Dubai to meet its obligations,
including USD 4.1 billion needed to repay Nakheel, with the rest of the money
to be used to pay trade creditors and contractors as well as meeting interest
expenses and company’s working capital (Oakley, 2009). Indeed, Dubai’s woe
did hit the reputation of IBF. As a response, Dubai first had announced that it
would restructure the debt, then two weeks later it announced that it would repay,
possibly on the back of market reaction. Dubai realised that it could not afford
the damage of not repaying. But the damage may have already been done.
The market conditions during the 2008/2009 crisis had resulted in other
defaults in the Islamic finance sector, such as the Saad Group, Investment Dar
and the East Cameron Gas Company. These failures have brought several key
risk management issues like enforcement of judgments in the GCC, transparency,
corporate governance and asset-based sukuk into the limelight.
These episodes reminded investors that default can and does happen in the
sukuk market, as in any other part of the financial sector. However, sukuk default
is a new phenomenon, as the market is still in its infancy. This represents an
interesting development, and it should help investors to understand what could
happen in the case of default and what the legal and financial repercussions
could be. According to Professor Habib Ahmed of Durham University (cited in
Newby, 2009), “Islamic economists have been saying that Islamic finance was
not affected directly by the subprime problems. The Nakheel problem shows that

--- Página 186 ---
170
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Islamic finance can have similar problems if wrong investments are made . . .
This case is a wake-up call for Islamic finance to focus more on ethical and moral
issues that it has been ignoring for so long.”
Recent sukuk defaults highlight the issues Sheikh Taqi Usmani battled with, as
he rejected the ‘opaque’ musharakah/mudarabah type whereby investors did not
really know what ‘assets’ as sukuk holders they were getting but did not care as
they relied on the creditworthiness of obligor. Ijara, although not perfect, at least
gives sukuk holders the ability to assess the value of what they are getting for their
money (inflated or otherwise). In addition, the rating agencies were concerned
only with the credit rating of the obligor (because of the purchase undertaking),
whereas a proper musharakah/mudarabah sukuk would have forced them to look
at the merits of the underlying business – and perhaps to reject them on that basis.
During the financial crisis, the default of a couple of sukuk was thus possibly
partly responsible for the recent slowdown in issuance. The silver lining was that
these defaults should provide the market with useful information on how sukuk
will behave following default.
According to Standard & Poor’s (2010a), despite its relative recovery in 2009,
major hurdles remain on the path to sukuk market development, including:
(i) Difficult market conditions, which are slowing the planned issuance of numer-
ous sukuk;
(ii) Uncertainty about the legal recourse to the underlying asset as demonstrated
by the recent defaults;
(iii) The lack of standardisation, notably when it comes to Shari’ah interpretation;
and
(iv) The low liquidity of the sukuk market, which constrains investors trying to exit
the market in times of turbulence or access the market looking for distressed
sellers.
The need to address those issues in a well-regulated Islamic finance market
is even more crucial due to its nascent stage of development. Any failure in the
Islamic financial sector now will hurt its reputation and could threaten its survival.
“If there is a failure of the bond market in California, nobody will question whether
there is a systemic risk to the global bond market. But if a sukuk fails, it will raise
questions on the entire Islamic finance” said the economist Mirakhor, a former IMF
executive director (Oana, 2009).
Islamic Banking Emerging Stronger from
the Crisis
It should be considered that lower volumes, shrinking margins and deterio-
rating asset quality will all weigh on IFIs’ profitability and ultimately their

--- Página 187 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
171
capitalisation. However, once again, the impact will be more manageable than
for their conventional peers. Fortunately, Islamic banks have been very profitable
in the past and have therefore accumulated large amounts of capital, making
them capable of absorbing these sorts of shocks. Conventional banks have had
greater appetite for exotic asset classes, like bank bonds, hedge funds and direct
exposures to global financial institutions and insurers, than have Islamic banks.
In that sense, asset-quality deterioration at conventional banks may be more
pronounced. In addition, conventional peer banks used to be less well capitalised
and less liquid, and hence will find it more difficult to book new business in the
current market conditions. To grow today, a bank must have accumulated excess
liquidity and capital in the past: most commercial Islamic banks have, some
conventional banks have not.
Wilson (2009) points out that Islamic banks have been less adversely affected
by the crisis than major international banks. He argues that, as the latter have been
weakened by the recent financial crisis, this undoubtedly presents an opportunity
for Islamic banks, especially in the GCC, which have been less adversely affected.
GCC-based investors in conventional banks, such as Prince Waleed’s Kingdom
Holdings, which holds 5% of Citibank, and the Abu Dhabi and Qatar Investment
Authorities, which hold significant stakes in Barclays, have seen the value of their
investments plummet. In contrast, the value of Al Rajhi Bank and KFH invest-
ments in retail Islamic banking affiliates in Asia has been much more resilient.
The Islamic financial industry is therefore expected to emerge stronger from
the crisis, provided some conditions are met: more innovation bound with the eth-
ical norms of the Islamic moral economy, enhanced transparency, more robust risk
management architecture and culture, and, most importantly, less deviation from
the core Shari’ah principles. These are the lessons to be learnt from the finan-
cial crisis, as it has forced Islamic banks to do a complete reassessment of their
policies and attitudes not only to whether they are merely Islamising conventional
products but also to whether the financing is beneficial to the real economy. In an
interview with Arab News (2009), Sheikh Esam M. Ishaq stated, “I think in a way
the financial crisis is a blessing in disguise for Islamic banking because Islamic
banks unfortunately were far down the road in trying to mimic and replicate any-
thing and everything that was there in the conventional banking sector.” Hence, the
call exists for a return to the foundational basics of Islamic finance to overcome
or at least moderate the consequences of potential financial crises.
Paradoxically, the reputation of Islamic banks has benefited from the recent
crisis (albeit with some exceptions), reflecting their conservative approach to busi-
ness, a close proximity to their domestic and regional deposit franchises, their
balanced and ordered appetite for growth, and their focus on the basics of banking
as opposed to over-innovation, with an emphasis on their domestic market first.
All these factors, which used to be perceived as weaknesses before the credit crisis

--- Página 188 ---
172
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
began, are now being used as shields against the potential damage of imported
stress. Investors may therefore view IFIs as safer havens less prone to excessive
financial shocks. Several Islamic banks therefore are in a position to gain market
share at the expense of conventional peers, which have been weakened by toxic
subprime assets. Furthermore, a global economic recovery is likely to benefit the
GCC as oil and gas prices rebound, resulting in fresh liquidity being pumped into
Islamic banks to fuel further expansion (Wilson, 2009).
It is quite clear that the policies implemented and practised by Islamic banks
have luckily worked to their advantage so far. From a risk management perspec-
tive, however, (and in light of the financial crisis) IFIs are using unstable policies
without growing their liquid asset supply and monitoring their risk levels. As the
market matures and the crisis deepens, the negative impact of these policies could
lead to bankruptcies due to inaccurate liquidity management and defective asset
qualities. That said, the chances of an IFI becoming insolvent are low due to the
availability of government support – especially in the GCC – and support from
other financial institutions.
From a conceptual perspective, Islamic banks will probably be the big winners
when the crisis ends, provided that the abovementioned conditions are fulfilled. As
a sub-set of ethical finance, Islamic banking is now considered not so much a niche
business standing at the margins, but rather as representative of a credible, viable
and sustainable alternative business model for sound, ethical and socially responsi-
ble banking (Oakley, 2009). Many now believe that mainstream finance has moved
too far into excess leverage, meaningless innovation and value-destroying invest-
ments. As a rule, Islamic bankers tend to view a monetary, banking and financial
system as existing to serve the real economy and not being served by it. In a sense,
the Islamic banking model inherently calls for social and economic responsibility
from those who create money with credit, encouraging balance, care, honesty and
transparency in doing business. What Islamic banking also promotes is that debt
is a responsibility and should not be overly traded; that money is a measure of
value, not a commodity; and finally that human factors, rather than simply prof-
its, are the cornerstone of any economic and financial system. In that sense, by
endogenising such features into its operations, IFIs will undoubtedly find their
reputations strengthened, and Islamic finance as a whole will come out stronger
from this crisis. At this stage, supervisory authorities and IFIs have a golden oppor-
tunity to achieve the true goals of the Islamic moral economy and to create a stable
Islamic financial system that can resist economic shocks and that truly operate on
the basis of profit and loss sharing (PLS) (Awan, 2008). The credit crunch has
shaken confidence in the existing Western regulations and created the need for a
better, more transparent system; this has opened the door for Islamic bankers to
take up the opportunity. Indeed at the 5th World Islamic Economic Forum (WIFE)
in Jakarta on 2 March 2009, Muslim leaders, including Indonesian President Susilo

--- Página 189 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
173
Bambang Yudhoyono and Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi, called on
the Muslim world to leverage the global financial crisis by turning “adversity into
opportunity” (Parker, 2009).
In short, Islamic banking has suffered from the liquidity drought, to the point
where a few of the sector’s investment banks have defaulted; but as an industry it
now has a track record of resilience, which had not been tested before. It is true that
Islamic finance has been more conservative because of Shari’ah rules, which has
resulted in Islamic financiers steering clear of toxic repackaged credit instruments.
By partially following the core principles of Shari’ah IFIs were more financially
stable than their conventional peers. Therefore, a true Shari’ah-compliant financial
model can be a panacea if it is followed purely, without deviation.
DEVIATIONS FROM THE FOUNDATIONAL SHARI’AH
PRINCIPLES: EVALUATING THE OPERATIONS
OF ISLAMIC FINANCE
The social failure and the deviation of Islamic finance from its foundational aims
have been articulated by a number of studies (Asutay, 2007; Asutay and Zaman,
2009). An important part of this criticism is related to the notion of Shari’ah com-
pliance, as the real issue in Islamic banking is the excessive reliance on form in the
sense of technical norms at the expense of substance or the foundational norms.
A critical examination of the developments and trends in Islamic finance indi-
cates that the convergence has been from Islamic finance to conventional finance in
terms of operations and functioning; and that Islamic banking, in its current state,
does not necessarily uphold the full spirit of an Islamic moral economy (Asutay,
2007). The financial crisis, being an extremely difficult lesson, should encourage
IBF institutions to overcome this apparent divergence and the growing dichotomy
between the ideals of an Islamic moral economy and the realities of today’s Islamic
banking (Asutay, 2009b). Indeed, a number of scholars are of the view that some
IFIs have deviated to a great extent from the fundamental basis of Islamic finance.
Currently, most Islamic finance is work in progress. Some Islamic banks have suc-
cumbed to the influence of conventional banking. Notably controversial examples
include the contemporary mechanisms of tawarruq or fixed-income instruments,
IFIs’ reluctance to hold PLS assets, and the issuance of ‘asset-based’ sukuk with
no real recourse to the underlying assets.
Tawarruq: A Contentious Islamic Finance
Instrument
One major example of the apparent divergence between theory and practice is the
excessive use of murabahah, which gives a fixed return. This has been dubbed

--- Página 190 ---
174
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
‘murabahah syndrome’, with an ironic feeling about operations of IFIs. This
practice, referred to as tawarruq in Arabic (meaning ‘cash generation’), has been
under criticism from many Shari’ah scholars, such as Sheikh Muhammad Taqi
Usmani, Dr Abdul Latif Al Mahmood and others. It was initially approved as an
interim solution until IFIs move to genuine commodity murabahah, but it seems
that several banks took advantage of this interim approval and prefer to stick
to tawarruq as it bears minimal commodity risks for the bank and replicates a
conventional loan. Figure 5.4 shows that IFIs have a long-standing bias toward
simple products that use mostly murabahah and ijarah structures, both of which
offer more predictable returns, and have similar profiles to conventional products.
Furthermore, they do not bear the challenges in terms of governance, profit
calculation and allocation of more complex structures, like musharakah and
mudarabah, which allow for more advanced financing offerings such as private
equity.
Sheikh Muhammad Taqi Usmani, as cited by Ayub (2007:446), states about
tawarruq and fixed-income instruments: “Shari’ah scholars have allowed their
use for financing purposes only in those spheres where musharakah cannot work
and that, too, with certain conditions. This allowance should not be taken as a
permanent rule for all sorts of transactions and the entire operations of Islamic
banks should not revolve around it.”
Murabaha and Ijara have the highest share between the Islamic products 
Murabaha 
Ijara
Istisnaa
Mudaraba
Musharaka
Other
Islamic products distribution
FIGURE 5.4
Asset breakdown for a sample of leading Islamic banks (excluding fixed
assets and cash
Source: Based on data from Oliver Wyman (2009)

--- Página 191 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
175
The problem is that for many banks tawarruq has become an essential tool
for conducting day-to-day business (Davies, 2009).
Practically, however, fixed-income murabahah is being used to a very large
extent and the use of the PLS mode is negligible, even in institutions in which the
honourable Sheikh Usmani used to serve as Shari’ah supervisor or member of the
Shari’ah board.
Lack of Appetite for Risk-Sharing Assets
One of the major criticisms of Islamic banks is their reluctance to hold risk-sharing
assets. By design, because of the prohibition of interest and pure debt, and the
sharing of risks, Islamic banks should engage in partnerships and equity-sharing
financial assets, but in practice the portion of such assets on the balance sheets of
Islamic banks is minimal. For example, Table 5.2 shows the asset composition of
selected banks from 1999 to 2002. It is evident that Islamic banks’ first preference
is for financial instruments that are generated through debt creation, sale contracts
and leasing instruments. Informal observation of more recent balance sheets shows
a similar picture.
Islamic banks’ reluctance with regard to risk-sharing instruments such as
musharakah and mudarabah is problematic for achieving the true potential and
promise of the system. The reason for shying away from such instruments is a
lack of appetite for risky assets, which in turn is due to Islamic banks’ attempts
to emulate conventional commercial banks where preservation of depositors’
principal is their foremost objective. By investing in financing and trade-related
instruments, Islamic banks are able to provide low-risk and good fee investment
opportunities; they want the best of both worlds. There are also pressures on
Islamic banks to make their investment accounts behave like conventional
deposits in terms of return profile. These pressures are twofold – namely, from
the marketplace and from the banking supervisor in some countries (IFSB, 2007).
TABLE 5.2
Asset composition of selected Islamic banks
1999
2000
2001
2002
Murabahah and deferred sales
80.1%
83.0%
86.7%
84.3%
Istisna’a
10.8%
8.7%
7.5%
7.0%
Ijara
2.5%
2.4%
1.9%
2.9%
Mudarabah
1.6%
1.6%
1.2%
3.1%
Musharakah
0.9%
0.8%
1.3%
1.2%
Qard ul-hassan
0.2%
0.3%
0.4%
0.5%
Other
0.2%
0.2%
0.5%
3.0%
Source: Askari et al. (2009:95). © John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Reproduced with permission

--- Página 192 ---
176
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The real issue in Islamic banking, as mentioned above, is the excessive
reliance on form at the expense of substance. By promoting risk-sharing through
asset-based equity-type facilities on the assets side and profit-sharing investment
accounts on the funding side, Islamic finance could in principle contribute to a
better balance between debt and equity, thereby fostering stability. However, in
practice, the use of equity-type financing facilities is limited due to risks linked
to considerations of asymmetric information and adverse selection (IFSB, 2007).
IFIs should change this business model and expand their portfolio to include
risk-sharing instruments. Islamic banks often claim that their reluctance is a direct
reflection of depositors’ low appetite for risk-sharing products. However, it is
possible that depositors’ low appetite for such instruments is due to a lack of
transparency and confidence in the ability of the financial intermediary. There-
fore, Islamic banks should consider doing a better job of selecting and monitoring
risk-sharing assets, and enhance the transparency of the investment process by
informing depositors through good estimates of exposures to risks taken by the
bank on investing in risk-sharing instruments (Askari et al., 2009). The long-term
sustainable growth of Islamic banking will depend largely on the development of
risk-sharing products.
Sukuk
While there are many sukuk structures (14 described by Accounting and Auditing
Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI)), the majority of those
applied (be they ijarah, musharakah or mudarabah) effectively ‘reduce’ to a form
that is an Islamic equivalent of a conventional unsecured bond. Much complex-
ity is generated by asset-based aspects of the structure, but the ultimate objective
is to replicate the risk-and-return characteristics of a fixed-income bond. More-
over, most originators in these structures do not intend to sell the contributed
assets, and the transfer of assets is often not legally perfected or registered (Dey
and Holder, 2008). Most sukuk transactions are therefore ‘asset-based’ rather than
‘asset-backed’.
This disparity between the ‘ideal’ and the ‘reality’ of sukuk was highlighted
by AAOIFI in February 2008 following a well-publicised criticism of the
mudarabah sukuk structure by the prominent Shari’ah scholar and Chairman
of the AAOIFI Shari’ah Board, Sheikh Taqi Usmani. AAOIFI then published
a statement containing six principles regarding sukuk structures. Subsequently,
many sources attributed the market decline to this statement. In reality, the decline
in sukuk market volume in 2008 was probably due more to prevailing global credit
market conditions (it was a very difficult time to raise funds, whether conventional
or Islamic) rather than to any direct reaction to the AAOIFI statement. In the
midst of this global turmoil and the market pause, the AAOIFI comment has
provided for some self-reflection in the industry.

--- Página 193 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
177
While there was some debate regarding the method of its release, the
AAOIFI’s comments constituted a positive effort toward improving transparency
and bringing the ‘substance’ of sukuk products closer to the basic tangible and
risk-sharing principles on which there is an almost universal consensus; it is in the
implementation of these principles that matters become complex for investors.
To date, many of the current sukuk types adhere to AAOIFI in form, but not
in substance. The highly successful Indonesian sovereign sukuk (USD 650 mil-
lion) issued in April 2009 shows there is still heavy demand for these unsecured,
asset-‘based’ structures (Moody’s, 2009d).
The term ‘based’ is often used to reference a ‘looser’ asset security struc-
ture that has little or no legal relevance in the event of a corporate default or
distress. There is no scope in the courts for such vagaries – either the investors
have a legally enforceable claim on assets or they do not. So when crunch time
comes, those investors in asset-based structures are left with nothing: no assets,
no security, just an unsecured claim in substance like a debt of the company. The
majority of investors happily accept these structures. Many investors – Islamic
and non-Islamic alike – simply want a fixed-income bond: rough estimates put
the market size at USD 45–50 trillion and it is this powerful investor demand that
primarily drives the shape of the market (Moody’s, 2010b).
HOW TO ACHIEVE THE FULL POTENTIAL
OF ISLAMIC FINANCE
Although Islamic banking offers a combination of both equity- and non-equity-
based instruments, the system’s preference for equity contracts often makes it
more efficient and stable than debt-based conventional systems. Sadr and Iqbal
(2002) presented empirical evidence based on data gathered over 15 years from
the Agricultural Bank of Iran demonstrating that equity-based financing increases
transparency, monitoring and supervision, and thus improves efficiency and sta-
bility of the financial system.
The operations of IFIs demonstrate that they tend to shy away from equity-
and partnership-based instruments for several reasons, such as the inherit riski-
ness and additional costs of monitoring such investments, low appetite for risk,
and lack of transparency in the markets. Consequently, bank portfolios are often
not diversified either geographically or by product. This unwillingness to take on
risk reflects lack of transparency in the Islamic banking system, which dampens
confidence and trust among investors and market participants. The result is that
depositors and investors become more risk averse, and so banks become even more
risk averse, thus creating a vicious circle which results in a severe financial and
economic crisis. In theory, Islamic financial principles contribute to the stability

--- Página 194 ---
178
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
of the financial system. Islamic modes of finance, particularly the profit-sharing
principle, provide a loss-absorption feature to financial institutions.
The original concept of Islamic financing is undoubtedly in favour of equity
participation rather than creation of debt, because it is only equity that brings an
equitable and balanced distribution of wealth in society. A debt-ridden economy,
on the other hand, tends to concentrate wealth in the hands of the rich and cre-
ates a bubble economy which fuels inflation and brings many other social and
economic evils (Usmani, 2008). However, the practice is very different from the
theory. All of these deviations between theory and practice of Islamic finance mean
that the system is not functioning at its full potential and has adapted itself to a
limited functionality. In fact, due to these deviations, the Islamic banking sys-
tem is exposed to risks that it is not supposed to be exposed to. These deviations
and other greedy banking practices, hence, have created additional risks both at
the institutional and systematic levels. In a ‘pure’ Shari’ah system, finance would
be based around equity rather than debt and, although cycles would occur, they
would not be on the same scale and crashes could be avoided. Therefore, Islamic
banking needs to develop more ideal equity-based Islamic products and shift away
from those based on debt. The Holy Prophet (Peace be upon him) declared that
“Allah Almighty remains with trade-partners (to help and support them) unless
one of them becomes dishonest to the other.”1 Also, in the Hadith, debt presents
a troubling face once the possibility of deferment arises, as it might with a debtor
in difficulty. Such Islamic sentiments, under the conditions of the financial crisis,
have also been raised by contemporary researchers and financiers; for example,
Davis (2009a) states that “Debt is the weapon used to conquer and enslave soci-
eties, and interest is its ammunition.”
In addition, IFIs – in theory – should be less exposed to asset–liability
mismatch than their conventional counterparts. This comparative advantage is
rooted in the ‘pass through’ nature of Islamic banks, which act as agents for
investors/depositors and pass all profits and losses through to them. Following
the theoretical model, any negative shock to an Islamic bank is absorbed by both
shareholders and investors/depositors. Thus, the chronic problem of asset–liability
mismatch in Islamic banks should not exist; this type of financial intermediation
contributes to the stability of the financial system. This is theory; the practice is,
however, different, as discussed thoroughly in Chapter 3. IFIs tend to sacrifice a
share of their profits for the year to subsidise Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts
(PSIAs)’ appetite for returns. In order to mitigate the displaced commercial risk,
these IFIs resort to the practice of smoothing distributions to PSIAs, utilising
Internal Rate of Return (IRRs) and Profit Equalisation Eeserves (PERs). This
implies that an Islamic bank that practises distribution smoothing may be subject
to higher earnings volatility when it does not have a significant build-up of
reserves. This renders the Islamic bank riskier than a conventional bank, given

--- Página 195 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
179
that a conventional bank has hedging mechanisms. If IFIs truly provide real
economic distributions to their PSIAs, as the Shari’ah requires, these banks will
be able to avoid systemic risks and be more resistant to economic shocks.
Regrettably, both Islamic banks and their supervisory authorities in some
countries consider unrestricted investment accounts to be a product designed to
compete with, and to be an acceptable substitute for, conventional deposits; in such
an environment profit smoothing may be considered to be an inherent attribute of
the product rather than a means of deliberately avoiding transparency and market
discipline, especially if it is combined with in-substance capital certainty (Archer
and Karim, 2007). In some such countries unrestricted IAHs may benefit from
deposit guarantee schemes; the compliance of such practices with Shari’ah prin-
ciples seems open to doubt. Therefore, if unrestricted IAHs are considered to be
virtual depositors, the implications of this in terms of capital adequacy need to
be enforced by the regulator by treating these IAHs in the same way as liabilities
for the purpose of calculating capital adequacy ratio.
Dar and Presley (2000) argue that Islamic banking is all about taking risk.
Depositors keep their money in profit-sharing accounts and so, in theory at least,
they participate in both the profits and losses of the banks. In practice, however,
banks have consistently given depositors returns that are on par with the interest
rates that conventional banks deliver. As their profits declined during the crisis,
IFIs started dipping into PERs to keep depositors satisfied, which added signifi-
cant pressure on IFIs during the years of economic downturn. “Devout Muslims
have increasingly migrated to Islamic banks in recent years, but will the trend
survive if some of them start losing their money?”, wonders Dar (Khalaf, 2009).
It is arguable that illiquidity cases like Northern Rock in the UK would have
never happened under a pure Islamic system because instead of borrowers funding
investments, they would be sharing the risks with other investors and they would
not be able to ‘withdraw’ funding as they did with Northern Rock.
However, many argue that PSIAs would not agree to receive volatile distribu-
tions, since they mistakenly believe that IFIs should provide distributions similar
to conventional banks. Archer and Karim (2007) suggest that this might be because
of the inherent nature of bank depositors (whether Islamic or conventional) whose
relatively low net worth means that they are naturally risk averse and prefer to
earn stable low returns compared with high-net-worth individuals who invest in
shares, funds and all sorts of diversified risky investments. But perhaps it may
also have to do with market education about Islamic banking as an alternative sys-
tem. Many people, particularly after the crisis, started to believe in the Islamic
finance system and the benefits it offers. AAOIFI and IFSB are working toward
educating the market about the best practices of Islamic finance, but it might be
difficult to change the mindset of bank depositors, which has been set in stone
over decades.

--- Página 196 ---
180
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
It should also be noted that some IFIs might mistakenly see no incentives
in moving in this direction of fully applying Shari’ah principles. It is therefore
essential that supervisory authorities, at least in Islamic countries, provide regula-
tory incentives for IFIs that comply with Shari’ah rules and punishments for those
that do not comply. Making AAOIFI and IFSB standards mandatory for Islamic
banks should be a step in the right direction.
As has been discussed in the previous chapter, the IFSB supervisory discretion
formula for calculating CAR gives a natural incentive to IFIs to engage in provid-
ing true economic returns to PSIAs and to stop the smoothing practice. However,
this formula is not obligatory in most countries and is applied on a jurisdictional
basis, i.e. if an individual IFI has little or no displaced commercial risk, it still has
to abide by the regulatory imposed α factor. One way for regulators and supervi-
sors to resolve this ‘one-size-fits-all’ issue and indirectly incentivise IFIs to engage
in the ‘passing through’ to PSIAs mechanism is imposing a variable 𝛼factor on
banks (Farook, 2008). The IFSB already provides this flexibility to each regulator.
This would, however, require accounting technology that would calculate an indi-
vidual bank’s exposure to displaced commercial risk, as this is quite achievable.
Central banks, for instance, can design a formula to calculate individual displaced
commercial risk exposure for each Islamic bank. Based on this exposure, the cen-
tral bank can impose a variable 𝛼factor that will determine the capital that each
bank must hold against its RWAs funded by PSIAs. In addition, banks can be given
further 𝛼factor relief based on the extent of disclosure provided, with more dis-
closures allowing more haircuts on the extent of RWAs funded by PSIAs included
in the denominator of the CAR equation (Farook, 2008). If the measure is vari-
able and banks have the opportunity to reduce their CAR by reducing the PSIAs’
displaced commercial risk charge, they will do whatever is in their capacity to
diminish it. This may include ensuring a more efficient asset allocation strategy,
reducing dependence on fixed rate instruments, and improving disclosure directed
toward IAHs, educating them about the nature of their relationship with the bank
and the rationale behind the profit share distributed to them, even if it happens to
be lower than conventional-based market deposit rates.
This will of course have a positive effect on the broader Islamic financial sys-
tem, as IFIs will be more resistant to systemic risks because they will actually share
the effects of shocks with PSIAs, who will also get to bear the fruit of expansionary
cycles.
Even liquidity, which both academics and practitioners identify as one of the
highest risks facing Islamic banks, acted in some way as a financial crutch for
Islamic banks in recent years. IFIs have traditionally held high levels of cash/liquid
assets, ideally to buffer against their high liquidity risk. This excessive liquidity
syndrome of IFIs in fact reduced their liquidity risk during the economic downturn
when the money market dried up and several banks went under because of liquidity
issues.

--- Página 197 ---
Islamic Banking and the Financial Crisis
181
CONCLUSION
The Chinese use two brush strokes to write the word crisis. One brush
stroke stands for danger; the other for opportunity. In a crisis, be aware
of the danger, but recognise the opportunity.
—John F. Kennedy
The current bleak economic environment represents a golden opportunity for
IBF, as the fundamental weaknesses in the Wall Street banking model have been
exposed, requiring substantive change to the whole banking system. If it was not
for this crisis, the inherent stability and risk management techniques within Islamic
finance would not have gained so much attention.
Although IFIs have been more resilient to the financial turbulence than their
conventional peers, the shift in the environment did negatively affect some of them.
IFIs are not risk-immune; they face their own liquidity and asset decline challenges
but to a limited degree. So far, Islamic banks have been closely mimicking Western
products and hence they are being exposed to similar risks. No major collapse has
occurred in Islamic finance as a result of the crisis, but Islamic banking has been
hit by defaults, for example, the slump in Dubai real estate and debt restructuring.
Even if Islamic finance had been prevailing, at its current state, the crisis could
have happened but at a less severe level. Islamic finance has not yet provided a
more principled mode of finance than the debunked Wall Street model because
the embedded ethical foundations have not been explored yet (Asutay, 2009b).
NOTE
1. Abu Dawood, Chapter 27, Hadith no. 3383.

--- Página 199 ---
CHAPTER6
Research Framework
and Methodology
T
he literature review and the examination of other studies about risk manage-
ment in Islamic banking have shaped the research methodologies used in this
study. The previous chapters thoroughly reviewed and synthesised the literature
relating to, first, the theoretical overview of Islamic banking with specific
reference to risk management; second, the difference between conventional and
Islamic banking from a risk management perspective; third, the empirical studies
regarding risk management in Islamic banking; and, finally, the impact of the
recent financial crisis on the future of Islamic banking. This chapter discusses the
research methods employed in this research, and also presents the appropriate
analytical tools utilised.
The chapter defines the research objectives and questions introduced ear-
lier in Chapter 1; this is followed by the research hypotheses presented in the
Research Hypotheses section. The chapter later discusses research design and
methodologies, and explores the advantages and disadvantages of each by iden-
tifying the research methodology and design for this research. The subsequent
sections explain the research design, strategy, methods for primary data collection,
and chosen data analysis methods or tools. An explanation of the questionnaire and
interview design and the pilot study are also included.
RESEARCH QUESTIONS AND OBJECTIVES
As stated in Chapter 1, the aim of this study is to explore and evaluate the
risk profile of Islamic banks. At the heart of this research is the question of
whether Islamic banks are more or less risky than their conventional peers as
perceived by the participants. A review of the existing literature does not provide
a clear-cut answer to this question, which is expected to be explored by primary
data. In other words, this is clearly an empirical question, the answer to which
183

--- Página 200 ---
184
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
requires feedback from the market place. This study, however, is not merely
another addition to the available literature. It distinguishes itself by extracting
empirical evidence from the perceptions of banking professionals and from the
recent crisis.
Given the complexity of the topic, there are several questions that this research
sets out to answer:
(i) What is the difference between risk management for conventional and
Islamic financial institutions (IFIs)?
(ii) What are the additional risks faced by Islamic banks?
(iii) How do the Islamic banks perceive their own risks?
(iv) How advanced are the current risk management practices used by IFIs?
(v) How do regulators expect to respond to the new risks inherent in Islamic
banks?
(vi) Was Basel II drafted with conventional banking model in mind?
(vii) What does Basel III carry for Islamic banking?
(viii) What are the appropriate capital requirement levels for Islamic banks?
(ix) What possible Shari’ah-compatible risk management instruments are
available at the present and for the future?
(x) Can conventional risk mitigation techniques be adopted by Islamic banks
or does Islamic banking need to engineer its own?
(xi) Is Islamic banking actually more resilient than conventional banking?
(xii) What effects did the recent crisis have on Islamic banking?
(xiii) Are Islamic banks recession proof?
(xiv) Will the Islamic banking principles offer a role model for the future?
(xv) Could the crisis have occurred under an Islamic banking system?
(xvi) Can Islamic banking survive without proper hedging tools?
(xvii) Is hedging Shari’ah-compliant?
(xviii) What are the main divergences between the current practice and the moral
principles of Islamic banking?
(xix) What is the next chapter for risk management in Islamic banking?
Following a structured approach, answers for each of these questions are
explored through collecting primary data.
After the research questions were identified, an attempt was made to
operationalise them within the context of the broader objectives. Thus, the opera-
tionalised objectives are:
(i) To ascertain the fundamental principles underlying risk management in
Islamic banking and the unique risks facing IFIs;

--- Página 201 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
185
(ii) To investigate the effect of different control variables like region, country,
respondent’s position, nature of FI, nature of operations and accounting
standards on the participants’ perception on nature of risks, risk measurement
and risk management and mitigation approaches of IFIs in comparison to
those of conventional banks and with reference to the market conditions in
which IFIs operate;
(iii) To evaluate the applicability of IFSB Standards and Guidelines with respect
to risk management and capital adequacy, and how could they operate in a
Basel II (and potentially Basel III) era;
(iv) To investigate the real roots of the recent crisis with a view to drawing some
lessons for IFIs;
(v) To examine the dichotomy between the theory and practice of Islamic bank-
ing; and
(vi) To explore the next chapter for risk management in Islamic banking.
In answering the research questions, the impact of various categories of
respondents and their profile indicators on risk perception are also investigated.
RESEARCH HYPOTHESES
Having reviewed the related literature, identified research issues and formulated
research objectives and questions, what follows is the formulation of the research
hypotheses.
A research hypothesis is the statement created by a researcher when they
speculate upon the outcome of a piece of research or experiment. It is a tentative
generalisation, the validity of which remains to be tested. It is often a statement of
the expected relationship between two or more variables. The hypothesis requires
more work by the researcher in order to either confirm or disprove it (Creswell
and Clark, 2007). Research hypotheses determine the parameters of the research
questions; therefore the methods used in testing the hypotheses should be relevant
to the research questions and objectives (Robson, 2011).
For this study, research hypotheses were developed based on the main find-
ings of prior research literature as well as by referring to the researcher’s wide
practical experience in Islamic banking and also the unique characteristics of IFIs
as compared to conventional banks. The hypotheses are related to the opinions of
several groups of respondents about risk management in Islamic banking.
As discussed in the section ‘Research Design’, in order to follow a structured
approach that facilitated data collection and analysis, the questionnaire and inter-
view format was utilised; this is divided into 10 main parts. Research questions
and hypotheses are categorised in relation to the topical aspect of each part in the

--- Página 202 ---
186
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
questionnaire and interviews. The findings from questionnaire and interview data
analysis are tested against those hypotheses and, as a result, conclusions will be
drawn accordingly. In addition, the researcher further formulated sub-hypotheses
in order to further investigate the impact of various categories of respondents on
risk perception.
The research hypotheses and sub-hypotheses are listed and categorised as
follows:
Section A – Risk perception and risks in Islamic banking
Hypothesis 1: The main risks facing Islamic banks are reputational risk,
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk, asset–liability management risk, liquidity
risk and concentration risk.
H1-1: There is no statistically significant difference among the respon-
dents in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs
according to region.
H1-2: There is no statistically significant difference among the respon-
dents in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs
according to the country in which they operate.
H1-3: There is no statistically significant difference among the respon-
dents in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs
according to the respondent’s position.
H1-4: There is no statistically significant difference among the respon-
dents in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs
according to accounting standards.
H1-5: There is no statistically significant difference among the respon-
dents in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs
according to the nature of the financial institution.
Section B – Islamic finance contracts
Hypothesis 2: Islamic bankers prefer mark-up based contracts (murabahah,
wakalah, salam, istisna’a and ijarah) and shy away from profit-sharing
contracts (musharakah and mudarabah).
H2-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to region.
H2-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to the respondent’s
position.
H2-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to the nature of
the financial institution.

--- Página 203 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
187
H2-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to the nature of
activities.
Hypothesis 3: Profit-sharing contracts are perceived as more risky than
mark-up based contracts in the Islamic finance industry.
H3-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
region.
H3-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
the respondent’s position.
H3-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
the nature of the financial institution.
H3-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
accounting standards.
H3-5: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
the nature of activities.
Section C – Additional risk issues facing IFIs
Hypothesis 4: There is no substantial difference between risk management
in Islamic banking and conventional banking.
H4-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about additional risk management issues in
Islamic banking according to the nature of the financial institution.
H4-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about additional risk management issues in
Islamic banking according to region.
H4-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about additional risk management issues in
Islamic banking according to the respondent’s position.
H4-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about additional risk management issues in
Islamic banking according to the nature of activities.
H4-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about additional risk management issues in
Islamic banking according to accounting standards.

--- Página 204 ---
188
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Section D – Capital adequacy for Islamic banks
Hypothesis 5: It is generally known that capital requirement levels should be
lower in IFIs than in conventional banks.
Hypothesis 6: Basel II was drafted with conventional banking very much in
mind. IFIs should follow their own standards, e.g. IFSB Principles on
capital adequacy.
H6-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to
region.
H6-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to
the nature of the financial institution.
H6-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to
the nature of activities.
Section E – Islamic banking and the global credit crisis
Hypothesis 7: Islamic banking is more resilient to economic shocks than con-
ventional banking but not recession proof.
H7-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking
according to region.
H7-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking
according to the nature of the financial institution.
H7-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking
according to the nature of activities.
H7-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking
according to accounting standards.
H7-5: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking
according to the respondent’s position.
Section F – Risk management and reporting
Hypothesis 8: Not many Islamic banks use the more technically advanced
risk measurement and reporting techniques.

--- Página 205 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
189
H8-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the frequency of producing risk management reports according to
region.
Section G – Risk measurement
Hypothesis 9: The use of risk measurement techniques is less advanced
among Islamic banks than their conventional peers.
H9-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents in the use of risk measurement techniques according to
region.
H9-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to the respon-
dent’s position.
H9-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to the nature of
the FI.
H9-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to the nature of
activities.
H9-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to accounting
standards.
Section H – Risk mitigation
Hypothesis 10: Islamic banks use a number of risk mitigation tools that are
intended to be Shari’ah-compliant and that are less advanced than those
utilised by conventional banks.
H10-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to region.
H10-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to the
respondent’s position.
H10-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to the nature
of the financial institution.
H10-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to the nature
of activities.

--- Página 206 ---
190
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
H10-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to account-
ing standards.
Section I – Islamic banking in practice
Hypothesis 11: Most IFIs abandoned conservative risk management Shari’ah
principles in favour of copying conventional structures.
H11-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about the current practices in Islamic banking
according to the nature of the financial institution.
H11-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about the current practices in Islamic banking
according to region.
H11-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ perceptions about the current practices in Islamic banking
according to the respondent’s position.
Section J – The next chapter in Islamic banking
Hypothesis 12: Islamic banking has a great potential to become a strong alter-
native financing system provided that it goes back to its roots.
H12-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according
to region.
H12-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according
to the respondent’s position.
H12-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according
to the nature of the financial institution.
H12-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according
to the nature of activities.
H12-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respon-
dents’ recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according
to accounting standards.
General Hypothesis: Hypothesis 13 is a general hypothesis that is not linked
to a specific part of the questionnaire, which aims to develop a conclusion from
the main narrative and analysis of the entire research. This hypothesis expects

--- Página 207 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
191
significant differences between the perceptions of Islamic and conventional
bankers, with the former being biased in favour of the Islamic banking model and
the latter being biased toward their banking model.
Hypothesis 13: Perceptions of Islamic and conventional bankers differ signif-
icantly in relation to risk and risk management issues in Islamic banking
and finance (IBF), as Islamic bankers are more biased toward their busi-
ness model, and vice versa.
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
Research methodology is the approach a researcher follows in carrying out a
research project. Bryman (2008) defines methodology as “the practices and
techniques used to gather, processes, manipulate and interpret information that
can then be used to test ideas and theories about social life”. Thus, research
methodology provides a framework for the methods used in collecting, analysing
and reporting data.
According to the literature, there are two types of research methodologies:
qualitative and quantitative. Quantitative methodology is designed to reach con-
clusions based on numerical data, for example, by means of testing the strengths of
the relationship between dependent and independent variables (Creswell, 1994). It
involves the collection of data so the information can be quantified and subjected
to statistical treatment in order to support or refute alternative knowledge claims.
The main motive in quantitative methodology is to explain and examine a subject
matter by correlating various variables.
Qualitative research methodology, on the other hand, places an emphasis on
words instead of quantification when a researcher collects and analyses data (Bry-
man, 2008). Therefore, qualitative methodology is a set of research techniques
used to interpret a phenomenon. It should be noted that when the motivation for
a research is exploratory and evaluatory, it is constructed as a qualitative research
methodology (Cresswell and Clark, 2007).
This research is designed as a qualitative research study, as it aims to explore
the opinions and also to evaluate the risk perceptions of respondents to develop a
better understanding of risk practices in Islamic finance industry.
RESEARCH DESIGN
Research design is a framework for a certain set of criteria that would generate
suitable evidence for the researcher in the desired area of investigation. It there-
fore provides structure for the collection and analysis of data (Bryman, 2008).

--- Página 208 ---
192
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The objective of research design is to guide the research process from beginning
to end by providing the framework within which all the necessary work will be
completed. Social research should be constructed with a particular design in mind
before a researcher starts collecting and analysing data.
Creswell and Clark (2007) and Bryman (2008) regard a successful research
design to comprise of the following tasks:
(i) Define the research problem;
(ii) Determine the problem-solving information that is needed and when it is
needed;
(iii) Design the exploratory, descriptive or casual phases of the research;
(iv) Specify the measurement and scaling procedures;
(v) Construct and pre-test a questionnaire or an appropriate form for data col-
lection;
(vi) Specify the sampling process and sample size;
(vii) Develop a plan of data analysis and tabulation;
(viii) Specify the time and financial constraints; and
(ix) Follow up on the completed research study.
Research design, by considering the abovementioned tasks, can be clas-
sified in numerous ways depending on the objective of the categorisation
criteria. The most common classification is according to the particular approach
taken – exploratory research, descriptive research and explanatory research, which
are explored as follows:
Exploratory research is conducted to provide insights into and comprehension
of the problem situation confronting the researcher. It helps the researcher solve an
issue that has not been studied extensively previously. As the general nature of a
research problem and the relevant variables are investigated, exploratory research
is typically inevitable when the data that are sought are loosely defined, result-
ing in an unstructured working format. This does not mean that the research is
non-systemic but rather of a qualitative nature providing room for interpretative
explanations (Creswell and Clark, 2007).
Descriptive research’s main intention is to describe something pertaining
to characteristics, functions or any phenomena. It is conducted to describe
what exists. Thus, it is a type of research where the researchers use past events
to explain existing observable facts. Descriptive research is characterised by
the prior formulation of explicit hypotheses, thereby stressing the importance
of clearly defined research problems. This leads to a research design that is
more structured, consisting of numerous planning and statistical methodologies
(Bryman, 2008).

--- Página 209 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
193
Explanatory research, on the other hand, recognises cause-and-effect rela-
tionships between variables in the problem model, which is characterised by a
structured design and a considerable amount of planning. This design sees how
various independent variables are manipulated in order to check how a dependent
variable is affected within a relatively controlled environment. There are, however,
disadvantages of explanatory research. Some of the most common issues include it
being expensive, and having administrative problems (Creswell and Clark, 2007).
When one considers the relationship between the three previously discussed
types of research design, choosing a research approach is not an easy decision.
The best way is to rationalise the chosen design(s) by examining the situation at
hand. The selected design should be relevant to the problem being studied and the
procedure of conducting the research should be economically feasible and realis-
tically attainable. Thus, the nature of the study and the resources available to the
researcher will greatly influence the research design.
The framework of the present study contains characteristics of both
exploratory and descriptive research designs. This study benefits from the
use of both the survey technique and semi-structured interviews to search the
particularities of risk management in Islamic banking. This enables the researcher
to explore the subject matter through the perceptions of banking professionals
(explorative). The descriptive nature of the research stems from the fact that it
benefits from the available body of knowledge and literature as discussed in the
literature review section. Therefore, the chosen research design in this research
is mixed research design. This study does not warrant the use of explanatory
research, as it does not examine any direct cause–effect relationships.
RESEARCH STRATEGY
Another important aspect of a piece of research is the research strategy. Research
strategy is the approach to the study, and is related to how the connection between
theory and empirical data can be made. It is a fact that “social research attempts
to connect theory with empirical data – the evidence we observe from the social
world. In other words, the relationship between research and theory”, and how it is
done is explained by the research strategy (Asutay, 2011). In social research, there
are two main research strategies: deductive and inductive reasoning methods.
Deductive theory represents the most common view of the nature of the
relationship between theory and social research. The researcher, on the basis of
what is known in a particular domain and of theoretical considerations in relation
to that domain, deduces a hypothesis that must then be subject to empirical
scrutiny (Bryman, 2008). The researcher begins with a theory about the topic to

--- Página 210 ---
194
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
be researched, which is then narrowed down to a more specific hypothesis that
needs to be tested. This ultimately leads to the researcher being able to test the
hypothesis with specific data to reach a conclusion confirming or rejecting the
hypothesis (Creswell, 1994).
The inductive approach on the other hand moves from specific observations
or findings to a broader generalisation and theory. In other words, the researcher
begins with specific observations or arguments, formulates tentative hypotheses to
be explored, and finally develops a general theory (Blaikie, 2007).
Since this research is oriented toward an explorative approach, it commences
with exploring the field, and with the data collected from the field; it generates
particular hypotheses to be tested with the data collected from the field. In other
words, since this study begins with the specific and then moves to the general, it
therefore follows a deductive strategy.
RESEARCH METHOD
Research method includes the techniques, tools and procedures, by which the data
is collected, analysed and interpreted for the research project (Bryman, 2008).
Creswell (1994:64) defines research method as “the practices and techniques used
to gather, processes, manipulate and interpret information that can then be used to
test ideas and theories about social life”.
According to the literature there are two types of research methods: qualita-
tive and quantitative. The quantitative method is designed to reach conclusions
based on numerical data, while qualitative research method places an emphasis
on words instead of quantification. Therefore, the qualitative method is a set
of research techniques used to interpret a phenomenon. Quantitative analysis
depends heavily on statistical significance, while qualitative analysis mainly
uses simple human judgement in interpreting and organising the collected data
(Oppenheim, 2001).
Quantitative measurement is perceived as more accurate, valid, reliable and
objective than qualitative measurement, due to the former’s scientific nature.
However, this does not mean that qualitative research is less valuable. Instead of
focusing on numbers, qualitative research focuses on observations and words,
stories, visual depictions, interpretations and other expressive descriptions.
Qualitative approaches have the advantage of allowing for more diversity in
responses as well as the capacity to adapt to new developments or issues
during the research process itself. While qualitative research can be expensive
and time-consuming to conduct, many fields of research employ qualitative
techniques that have been specifically developed to provide more succinct,
cost-efficient and timely results.

--- Página 211 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
195
Generally speaking, a research method that combines two or more research
methods provides better interpretation as the information missed by one method
might be captured by the other and thus an enhanced and integrated result
may emerge from the analysis. According to Creswell and Clark (2007:13), mix
methods research “provides more comprehensive evidence for studying a research
problem than either qualitative or quantitative research alone. Researchers are
given permission to use all of the tools of data collection available rather than
being restricted to the types of data collection typically associated with quali-
tative research or quantitative research. Mixed methods research helps answer
questions that cannot be answered by qualitative or quantitative approaches
alone.”
This research hence triangulation- or mixed method-based, as it benefits from
quantitative and qualitative research methods. While the quantitative research
method is in the form of a self-administered questionnaire, the qualitative research
method in this study is based on semi-structured interviews. Both the survey
questionnaire and the semi-structured interviews are developed from the same
perspective and are expected to achieve the same objective of finding relevant
responses to the research questions. It should be noted that research related to the
literature review being descriptive research further contributes to the triangulation
nature of the research.
Research Method: Data Collection
As mentioned above, two main data collection methods are utilised in this study,
namely questionnaire and interviews. The following sections explore the details
of both methods of data collection.
The survey questionnaire
A questionnaire is a research instrument which
consists of a series of questions and other prompts for the purpose of gathering
information from respondents. It is very popular, since many different types of
primary data can be collected including attitudinal, motivational, behavioural and
perceptive aspects of the subject being studied (De Vaus, 2002).
In designing the questionnaire, it is important that the questions address the
aims of the study. The questionnaire is considered to be effective if it suits the
research objectives and questions. A good questionnaire has to be clear and unam-
biguous, and encourage respondent participation (Creswell, 1994).
If properly designed and implemented, surveys can be an efficient and accu-
rate means of determining information about a given population. Results can be
provided relatively quickly and, depending on the sample size and methodology
chosen, they are relatively inexpensive. Survey questionnaires have many advan-
tages over other methods of data collection (De Vaus, 2002).

--- Página 212 ---
196
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Some advantages of questionnaires can be listed as follows:
(i) The responses are gathered in a standardised way, so questionnaires are more
objective, certainly more so than interviews;
(ii) It can be completed at the convenience of the respondents;
(iii) Generally it is relatively quick to collect information using a questionnaire;
(iv) Low cost of data collection and processing;
(v) As the questionnaire can be anonymous, it gives the respondents freedom and
encouragement to answer questions honestly, especially sensitive questions;
and
(vi) It can cover a large sample of respondents at the same time.
On the other hand, the questionnaire method has some disadvantages which
have to be taken into consideration. Oppenheim (2001) highlights the following
problems:
(i) Some respondents may not be willing to answer the questions;
(ii) Respondents may answer superficially especially if the questionnaire takes a
long time to complete. The common mistake of asking too many questions
should be avoided;
(iii) The validity of the responses may be compromised by a biased view of the
respondent;
(iv) No opportunity to correct misunderstandings or to probe, or to offer explana-
tions or help;
(v) Questionnaires are standardised so it is not possible to explain any points in
the questions that participants might misinterpret; and
(vi) Respondents’ inability to answer a question might affect the response rate
and reliability.
Despite the disadvantages of the questionnaires, they are rather useful and effi-
cient in aiming to collect data related to the perceptions and opinions of individuals
on a particular subject. This study utilised a questionnaire survey in collecting pri-
mary data from bankers and financiers in the form of their opinions and perceptions
in mapping out the risks and aspects of risk management in IBF. Thus, a question-
naire survey is considered one of the main methods of primary data collection for
this study.
Open-ended versus closed questions In terms of questionnaire design, the ques-
tions included may be divided into those which are ‘open-ended’ and those which
are ‘closed’. In open-ended or free-response questions, respondents are free to
reply to the questions in any way they wish and the answers have to be recorded

--- Página 213 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
197
in full. In ‘closed’ questions, respondents are offered a choice of alterative replies
and they must reply in one of a predetermined number of ways, such as ‘yes’,
‘no’ or ‘don’t know’ (De Vaus, 2002). The advantages of using closed-ended
questionnaires are that this technique is easier and quicker for the respondents
to answer; they require no writing. In addition, closed-ended questionnaires are
easier to code and statistically analyse as quantification is straightforward. Dis-
advantages of closed questions are loss of spontaneity and expressiveness, and
perhaps the introduction of bias by ‘forcing’ respondents to choose between given
alternatives or by making them focus on alternatives that might have not occurred
to them (Oppenheim, 2001). On the other hand, open-ended questions have many
advantages, stemming from the fact that respondents are encouraged to struc-
ture the answer as they wish. This provides a means for obtaining information
which cannot be obtained adequately by the use of a closed question (Creswell,
1994). Another advantage of the open-ended question is the information which the
respondents indicate with respect to their level of knowledge or degree of exper-
tise. The disadvantage of open-ended questions is that they produce a mass of
different words meaning the same thing, or a number of similar words meaning
different things. It can therefore be stated that open-ended questions are easy to
ask, difficult to answer, and more difficult to analyse. Oppenheim (2001) explains
that these free-response questions require drawing up some system of categories
known as coding. The design of such coding framework and the actual coding
operation require trained staff and are extremely time-consuming; for this rea-
son researchers have to curb their desire to have too many open-ended questions
(Oppenheim, 2001).
Level and characteristics of measurements The level of scales measurement of
a variable in statistics is a classification that is used to describe the nature of data
contained within numbers assigned to objects and therefore within the variable.
According to De Vaus (2002), there are three main levels of measurement scales.
These are:
(i) Nominal scale, in which a distinction between categories of a variable can be
made, but one cannot rank the categories in any order. The nominal scale is
used to measure qualitative variables and yields frequency data that may be
subjected to non-parametric statistical tests, such as gender.
(ii) Ordinal scale, in which it is meaningful to rank the answers by categories, but
it is not possible to quantify precisely how much difference there is between
categories (such as more than, less than, equal to).
(iii) Interval/ratio scale, in which ranking of categories can be made and it is also
possible to quantify the differences between the categories precisely. Likert
scales are very commonly used with interval procedures.

--- Página 214 ---
198
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Sampling in the questionnaire A sample is a small selected portion of the whole
population. According to Bryman (2008:85), “a sample is the segment of popula-
tion that is selected to be investigated”. The size of the sample must be sufficient
in order to represent the population which the study is intended to investigate. The
sample size depends on the homogeneity of the population. If the pilot study indi-
catesthatthereisaconsiderableheterogeneityofthepopulation,thenitisimportant
to choose a larger sample. As Robson (2011:164) contends, if the population is
heterogeneous and the main interest of the study is to generalise the findings to
the population from which the sample was drawn, then a larger sample is needed.
In addition, a larger sample size will decrease the probability of sampling error.
According to Bryman (2008), sample sizes smaller than 500 cases and larger
than 30 cases tend to be suitable for most studies. As far as the survey sample in this
study is concerned, there were obviously some real cost and time constraints which
limited the sample size. The target population is the wider group of banking pro-
fessionals worldwide, both Islamic and conventional banking practitioners, whose
perceptions about risk management in Islamic banking could shape the outcome
of this study. The significant diversity and dispersion of the population meant the
time and cost constraints would be unusually high due to the inherent extra compli-
cations associated with such a target population. Caught between these challenges
and the strong desire to make the sample size as large as possible, the researcher
completed 77 questionnaires out of which five were not fit for purpose. The sample
size for this study, upon which both descriptive and inferential statistical analysis
will be performed, is therefore 72 questionnaires.
There are different sampling strategies such as simple random sampling, sys-
tematic sampling, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, panel sampling and others,
each with their own advantages and disadvantages.
According to Robson (2011), a variety of sampling methods can be employed,
individually or in combination. Factors commonly influencing the choice between
these designs include:
(i) Nature and quality of the research;
(ii) Availability of auxiliary information about units on the research;
(iii) Accuracy requirements, and the need to measure accuracy;
(iv) Whether detailed analysis of the sample is expected; and
(v) Cost/operational concerns.
It should be noted that the snowball sampling method is used for this research,
which is a sampling method used to obtain research and knowledge from extended
associations through previous acquaintances; it uses recommendations to find peo-
ple with the specific range of skills that has been determined as being useful. It
is referred to metaphorically as snowball sampling because as more relationships

--- Página 215 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
199
are built through mutual association, more connections can be made through those
new relationships and a plethora of information can be shared and collected, much
like a snowball that rolls and increases in size as it collects more snow. Snowball
sampling is a useful tool for building networks and increasing the number of par-
ticipants. However, the success of this technique depends greatly on the initial
contacts and connections made (Babbie, 2010).
Snowball sampling has a number of advantages over other sampling methods.
It is possible for the surveyors to include people in the survey that they would not
have known. It is also useful for locating respondents of a specific population if
they are difficult to locate. The advantage of this is that the researcher can quickly
find respondents who are experts in their fields. This leads to having the most
well-known experts for the sampling group, and also can help the researcher find
lead users more simply (Babbie, 2010). The method is, however, heavily reliant
on the skill of the researcher in conducting the actual sampling, and that individ-
ual’s ability to vertically network and find an appropriate sample. To be successful
requires previous contacts within the target areas, and the ability to keep the infor-
mation flow going throughout the target group. Identifying the appropriate person
to conduct the sampling, as well as locating the correct targets is a time-consuming
process which renders benefits that only slightly outweighing the costs. Another
disadvantage of snowball sampling is the lack of definite knowledge as to whether
or not the sample is an accurate reading of the target population. By targeting only
a few select people, it is not always indicative of the actual trends within the result
group (Babbie, 2010).
The experience in conducting this research indicates that due to the nature of
the research as well as the subject matter, the snowball sampling strategy proved
to be a very successful strategy.
Operationalising the questionnaire
(i) Questionnaire design and structure The questionnaire was primarily devel-
oped by the researcher drawing on conclusions from the literature review, which
included articles, books, PhD theses and exploratory surveys on the topic of risk
management in Islamic banking. In particular, the survey by Khan and Ahmed
(2001) was useful in developing the questions. In addition, the researcher’s
extensive practical experience in Islamic banking played a role in designing the
questionnaire.
The nine-page questionnaire (reproduced in Appendix 1) was drawn up with
22 main questions, most having a number of sub-statements.
The survey was mainly dominated by closed questions in a manner that
ensured that respondents could answer all the questions as easily as possible, with
a box-ticking response. However, at the end of the questionnaire, an open-ended
question option was provided for the respondents to raise any issue which they

--- Página 216 ---
200
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
might have in mind in relation to the subject of the questionnaire. The type of
questions used in the questionnaire varies according to the type of information
required to test the research hypotheses. The questions are mostly multiple choice
in order to cover all the relevant data.
The questionnaire was split into five main parts:
Part One, General and Background Information, covers the control variables
of the survey by acquiring background data of the respondents and their
organisations. The aim of obtaining data for this section is to use it as
control variables to investigate whether these variables had any effect on
the respondents’ answers in the other sections.
The second part, Risk Perception, is used to elicit opinions of respondents on
different risk management issues in Islamic banking. This part is subdi-
vided into three main sections: Section 1 covers the inherent risks, risk
measurement and severity of risks facing Islamic banks, in addition to
seeking the respondents’ perception of different Islamic banking con-
tracts; Section 2 deals with capital adequacy for Islamic banks; while
Section 3 is intended to gather the respondents’ views on the impact
of the recent credit crisis on Islamic banking. Part Two consists of 10
questions. The five-point Likert scale is used, providing options for each
question, so the respondents are able to express their preference in terms
of how strongly they agree or disagree with statements. In Question 7 the
five-point Likert scale is used to express the degree of importance (rank-
ing from Very Unimportant = 1 to Very Important = 5). However, the
respondents are given space at the end of the question to provide addi-
tional comments.
In the third part, Risk Management and Mitigation, respondents are requested
to provide feedback on the use of risk management and mitigation tech-
niques at their organisations, if applicable. This part consists of four
closed-ended questions through which respondents have to express their
views on risk management and mitigation techniques employed by the
banks. Replies from the respondents were obtained by asking each one
to answer questions using a five-point Likert scale for Question 17, while
respondents had to choose from listed options for Questions 18, 19 and 20.
Part Four, Islamic Banking in Practice, investigates whether there is a
dichotomy between the practice and ideals of Islamic banking. It
consists of one closed-ended question, Question 21, which is subdivided
into four statements. Replies from the respondents were obtained by
asking each one to answer questions using a five-point Likert scale
(ranking from Strongly Disagree = 1 to Strongly Agree = 5).

--- Página 217 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
201
Finally, Part Five, The Next Chapter in Islamic Banking, explores different
growth strategies for IFIs. Respondents were asked to rank the impor-
tance of each strategy according to their perception. While Q22 is a
closed-ended question, respondents are given space at the end of the
question to provide additional comments.
(ii) Administration and sampling The list of institutions and respondents to
approach was taken from the contact list at the European Islamic Investment
Bank Plc (EIIB). Between February 2010 and November 2010, questionnaires
were sent to 110 Islamic banker professionals in 19 countries.
In the process of conducting the questionnaire, a cover letter for each ques-
tionnaire was provided to explain the purpose of the research, as well as to high-
light the importance of the individual’s response. The letter aimed at assuring
respondents that the information provided is confidential, anonymous and would
be used only for the purpose of the research.
The sample included Islamic and conventional bankers, auditors, lawyers, rat-
ing analysts, Shari’ah scholars, consultants and brokers from various countries and
regions.
The final return date for the questionnaire was 30 November 2010. Ques-
tionnaires were distributed via email, fax, post and in person. Fifty-eight
questionnaires were initially returned – an initial response rate of 52.7%.
Follow-up reminders increased the total to 77 returned questionnaires from 18
countries. However, out of the 77 surveys returned, five were not useable because
the researcher felt that the answers were inconsistent or that that the respondents
were biased in their replies, which could influence the validity and reliability of
the findings.
The final sample comprised 72 surveys from 18 countries – a final response
rate of 65.5%. The sample represented a diverse geographic spread of institu-
tions, and respondents were spread across different departments and held different
positions within their organisations. The sample size and distribution is within
acceptable limits.
Table 6.1 provides a breakdown of the response rate; however, detailed analy-
sis of the sample according to respondents’ roles, countries and regions, and nature
of institution is provided in Chapter 7.
Pilot study A pilot study is a small-scale preliminary study conducted before
the main research in order to check the feasibility or to improve the design of the
TABLE 6.1
Questionnaire response rate
Distributed
Received
Not Valid
Valid
Response Rate
110
77
5
72
65.5%

--- Página 218 ---
202
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
research. The questionnaire must be evaluated rigorously before final administra-
tion (De Vaus, 2002). A pilot test is important as it highlights any shortcomings
before the document is fully launched. The objective is to check the overall pre-
sentation, clarity and reasonableness in terms of the length of the questions and
the depth of the information sought (Bryman, 2008). Also, piloting is important
to check the uniformity of interpretation of each respondent, and whether respon-
dents are answering the questions correctly (Dillman, 2000).
The drafted questionnaires for this study were first pilot tested on a group
of 10 bankers working in London. The respondents were asked the following
questions:
(i) Is the questionnaire too long?
(ii) Were the instructions clear?
(iii) Were any of the statements ambiguous?
(iv) Did they find any of the questions sensitive?
(v) Whether they had any comments and suggestions.
The feedback of this piloting provided the following observations:
(i) Q7: Some respondents did not understand what is meant by Displaced Com-
mercial Risk.
(ii) Q7: There was some ambiguity concerning which risks fall under market risk.
(iii) Q11: Some sub-statements are unclear.
This feedback was then incorporated into the questionnaire and a further ran-
dom sample of seven bankers was selected for second piloting. This time the
results from the pilot test resulted in no noticeable difference to the original ques-
tionnaire. This produced the final version used for this research.
Interviews
An interview is a qualitative research technique that allows
face-to-face interaction. It involves asking questions and receiving answers from
respondents in an identified research area. As compared to questionnaires, it can
lead to increased insight into respondents’ thoughts, feelings and behaviour rather
than simple answers.
Robson (2011) classifies interviews into structured, semi-structured and
unstructured interviews. The different types can, to some extent, be linked to the
depth of response sought. Oppenheim (2001) classifies interviews into essentially
two kinds:
(i) Exploratory interviews, depth interviews or free-style interviews; and
(ii) Standardised interviews such as used, for example, in public opinion polls,
market research and government surveys.

--- Página 219 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
203
Oppenheim (2001) provides some advantages of interviews compared to
questionnaires:
(i) Improved response rate;
(ii) Interviews can give a prepared explanation of the purpose of the study more
convincingly than a cover letter;
(iii) Flexibility, as questions that are inappropriate to a particular interviewee can
be omitted or additional ones included;
(iv) Gives the interviewer the opportunity to probe further into a subject to extract
more details from the interviewee;
(v) In interviews it is easier to keep the attention of the respondent; and
(vi) Enhancing data validity: due to human interaction, interview results have less
chance of being biased and unreliable.
However, interviews have some common disadvantages. Creswell and Clark
(2007) argue that the disadvantages of using interviews are to some extent a reflec-
tion of their advantages. Obviously, interviews are much more expensive than
questionnaires. The larger or the more dispersed the sample, the greater the cost.
Travel costs and call-backs add to this. The cost factor also enters the data process-
ing stage: since interviews are used particularly where many open-ended questions
have to be asked, there will be a major and costly coding operation allied to the
use of interviews. Analysis of interview data may be challenging as the data col-
lected usually contains non-standard responses. Moreover, interviews tend to be
time-consuming, as they require lots of preparation and coordination with the
interviewees.
Operationalising interviews This study collected qualitative data by con-
ducting exploratory semi-structured interviews because exploratory interview
is essentially heuristic, which helps to develop ideas and research hypotheses
rather than to gather facts and statistics (Oppenheim, 2001). In addition, Bryman
(2008) describes the in-depth interview as an engaged conversation between
two people. In the interview, the researcher puts themselves in the participant’s
situation to try to understand that person’s point of view (De Vaus, 2002). The
researcher needs to listen and pay constant attention to the participants as they
are responding, repeatedly attempting to understand the meaning of what is being
said and how the person has shaped their perspective. In this way, interviewing
is more than ‘collecting data’. Furthermore, interviewing allows the researcher
and the participant to connect in a profound way, reducing the distance between
them (Creswell and Clark, 2007). This type of interview is often unstructured
and therefore permits the interviewer to encourage a respondent to talk at length
about the topic of interest in a flexible approach (Robson, 2011).

--- Página 220 ---
204
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
(i) Interview structure The interview script was developed within the context
of the original research questions and hypotheses. The script helps to guide the
interview sessions. The interview is divided into six main parts corresponding
to the six research parts introduced under the structured approach in the Inter-
view Analysis section. This facilitated data collection and analysis. The interview
script covers the same topics as the questionnaire, as the main purpose of the
semi-structured interview is to prove or disprove the conclusions derived from
the questionnaire data analysis.
(ii) Administration of the interview and sampling The snowball sampling
method, as discussed before, was used for the interview sampling to obtain
perceptions and knowledge from an extended network of respondents, through
previous acquaintances. The researcher utilised his network of initial contacts
and connections to find participants with valuable experience and knowledge
in Islamic banking and risk management. From June 2010 to January 2011,
in-depth semi-structured interviews were completed with 37 Islamic banking
professionals. The interviewees included a mix of senior banking executives and
heads of business units who work at either Islamic banks or conventional banks
with Islamic activities/windows, researchers, academics, Shari’ah scholars,
consultants and specialised analysts at rating agencies. Five of the respondents in
the interview were also included in the sample for questionnaires.
Out of the 37 interviews conducted, four interviews were discarded because
the researcher felt that the interviewees were biased in their replies or were not
well informed about the issues discussed. Therefore, the final sample included
only 33 respondents (five of whom were included in the questionnaire sample)
who were knowledgeable about the topic and contemporary developments, and
whose replies could be taken, with a high level of confidence, as bias-free.
Out of the 33 interviews that comprise the final sample, 21 interviews
were conducted face-to-face, either in London or in the participants’ cities. The
researcher utilised his numerous business trips to arrange for these face-to-face
interviews. Seven interviews were conducted via teleconference, and five inter-
views were conducted via video conference facilities. Both the teleconferences
and the video conferences were dialled from the researcher’s primary location in
London. The final sample was diverse both geographically and by participants’
roles.
Interviews were conducted to gather primary data for this research to support
the primary data generated through quantitative method, namely the questionnaire.
It should be noted that the preparation for the interview was carefully planned and
professionally conducted. When possible, these interviews were audio recorded
with the permission of the interviewee. When recording was not possible because
of the spontaneous arrangement of the interview, notes were taken in shorthand

--- Página 221 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
205
by the interviewer. Even when an interview was being recorded, shorthand notes
were also kept.
However, the interview sample was not as big as the questionnaire sample for
a number of reasons:
(i) In-depth interviews take much more time than structured questionnaires;
(ii) Interviews require one-on-one interaction;
(iii) Travelling to meet interviewees was difficult due to time and cost constraints;
(iv) Despite exploiting video conference and teleconference facilities to conduct
some interviews, several potential interviewees did not have the time or the
wish to participate; and
(v) Some potential interviewees were located in remote time zones (like Amer-
ica and Southeast Asia), which added to the difficultly of arranging suitable
interview times.
Despite these difficulties, the sample size and distribution are within accept-
able limits and therefore allow for reliable data.
Table 6.2 combines the geographic distribution with the position of intervie-
wees. It is obvious that interviewees represent a wide range of expertise and roles.
Validity and reliability of the data
Validity refers to whether the ques-
tionnaire or interviews measure what they intend to measure, which is crucial,
TABLE 6.2
Breakdown of interview sample
Position
Country
Bahrain Egypt France Kuwait Malaysia Qatar Syria UAE UK
Total
Consultant
3%
3%
3%
6%
15%
Conventional
Banker
3%
3%
6%
12%
Islamic
Banker
6%
6%
3%
9%
24%
Lawyer
3%
3%
3%
9%
Rating
Agency
Analyst
3%
3% 15%
21%
Researcher
3%
3%
3%
9%
Shari’ah
Scholar
3%
3%
3%
9%
Total
12%
18%
3%
3%
3%
3%
3%
12% 42% 100%

--- Página 222 ---
206
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
regardless of the method used to collect such data, as invalidity makes the results
worthless. Validity depends largely on how honest and accurate the responses
given by the respondents are, which is a difficult factor to measure.
Reliability refers to the consistency of the questions. This means that if the
research were to be carried out by other independent researchers employing the
same methodology and strategy, they would arrive at a similar conclusion, all other
things being equal (Creswell, 1994). If a method of collecting evidence is reliable it
means that anybody using this method, or the same person using it at another time,
would come up with the same results. According to Oppenheim (2001), the key
components of data reliability include consistency, precision and explicability of
results, which suggests that the researcher should be consistent when collecting the
data and should aim for a high degree of precision and accuracy, which of course
will be subject to many factors outside the control of the researcher. However, the
researcher should try to minimise bias in the data collection process.
In this study, the validity and reliability of the data were proved acceptable
for a number of reasons:
(i) The use of multiple methods of data collection;
(ii) The use of a cover letter explaining the purpose of the research and assuring
the confidentiality of responses;
(iii) The questionnaire was subjected to a sequence of pilot tests which involved
every question being scrutinised and edited when necessary;
(iv) Collected raw data was screened and filtered for errors;
(v) Personal close follow-up with the questionnaire respondents via telephone
calls and emails to ensure elimination of any confusion or lack of clarity that
might arise;
(vi) Checking consistency of answers in questionnaires through multiple ques-
tions asking about the same point;
(vii) Five questionnaires were excluded from inclusion in the final sample as the
researcher felt the inconsistency in the answers might spoil the data;
(viii) Four interviews were discarded for the same reasons;
(ix) Personally assuring the interviewees involved in the semi-structured inter-
views of the anonymity of both their identity and personal responses; and
(x) Sending the draft questionnaire and interview script to a number of PhD
students and academics to seek their opinions on the proposed drafts and
their potential effect of the data validity and reliability.
Cronbach’s alpha test Cronbach’s alpha is the most common form of internal
consistency reliability coefficients; it ranges in value from 0 (when the true score
is not measured at all and there is only an error component) to 1 (when all items
measure only the true score and there is no error component). The higher the value

--- Página 223 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
207
TABLE 6.3
Reliability statistics
(Cronbach’s alpha coefficient)
Cronbach’s Alpha
No. of Items
0.912
105
of alpha, the more reliable the scale is. As a rule of thumb, alpha should be at least
0.7 (De Vaus, 2002).
Table 6.3 reveals that the Cronbach’s alpha coefficient for respondent groups
for the 105 items that used the scale was 0.912 (>0.70), which should be taken as
confirming the reliability of the contents of the questionnaire used in this study.
Research Method: Data Analysis
Data analysis is one of the most difficult parts of the research process. Having
chosen the appropriate method of analysis, the choice of statistics is affected by
the method of analysis itself, the level of measurement of variables and the com-
plexity of research questions (De Vaus, 2002). This section provides a detailed
description of the methods used to analyse the assembled qualitative and quanti-
tative data.
Quantitative data analysis
An initial screening of the questionnaire was car-
ried out regarding the completeness and eligibility of the responses. As a result of
this initial screening, only 72 out of the 77 returned questionnaires were included
in the final sample.
The questionnaires were numbered and data was checked for errors. Cross-
tabulations were carried out to check the inconsistency of the data (skip errors,
missed answers, values outside the range). In addition, the frequency distribution
for all question items was checked and corrected if required. Once all the errors had
been corrected, raw data was coded and saved as a new master file for statistical
analysis. The final complete sample was then entered directly into the Statistical
Package for Social Science (SPSS) programme. Initially, all the variables were
created, and then the actual questionnaires were entered. This enables the data to
be created in statistical tables in order to facilitate inferential statistical analysis.
Most questions in the questionnaire are designed along a five-point Likert
scale in order to measure the respondents’ opinions about sets of statements, which
make codification and analysis of the data easier and more efficient.
The following statistical techniques are utilised:
(i) Descriptive analysis methods Descriptive statistics are summaries of data,
which can be tabular, numerical or graphical. Different types of descriptive

--- Página 224 ---
208
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
statistics such as the mean, the mode, the median, the frequency distribution, the
minimum, the maximum and percentages are calculated, and these are presented
in Chapters 7, 8, 9 and 10.
(ii) Non-parametric tests The main objective of statistical analysis applied in
this research is to test whether there are significant differences in perceptions
of respondents through various control variables at the overall sample level and
among various groups of respondents. Significance testing is usually concerned
with accepting or rejecting hypotheses or propositions, and can be conducted by
parametric and non-parametric tests. Non-parametric tests were considered to be
appropriate for this study because the data collected was mainly nominal and ordi-
nal; the responses were not normally distributed; and the sample size was relatively
small. Parametric tests usually suit samples which are drawn from a normally dis-
tributed population and data collected on an interval or ratio scale (Hebel, 2002).
The following non-parametric techniques were used:
(a) Chi-Square test The Chi-Square test is used to measure the association
between dependent variables and independent variables (Saunders et al., 2007).
The test is appropriate for testing the goodness-of-fit variables because the test
can be applied to determine whether or not an observed set of frequencies matches
some expected set of frequencies. The Chi-Square test was used to verify the
existence of any significant differences in the responses regarding the degree of
response for each statement. A significance level of 5% is used for this study as
justification for rejecting the null hypothesis.
(b) Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U test The Kruskal-Wallis (K-W) test is a
non-parametric method for testing equality of population medians among groups.
It is identical to a one-way analysis of variance with the data replaced by their
ranks. It is an extension of the Mann-Whitney U test to three or more groups.
The K-W test allows researchers to measure the possible differences between
two or more groups in relation to particular control variables. In this study, the K-W
test of significance was intensively used for the inferential statistical analysis to test
the impact of control variables like region, country, respondent’s position, nature
of financial institution, nature of activities and accounting standards on the per-
ception of survey participants. The significance level used for this Kruskal-Wallis
test is 5%.
(c) Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient Spearman’s Rank Correlation
Coefficient is a measure of correlation, which shows how closely two sets of data
are linked. It can be done only on data that can be put in order, highest to lowest
(Bryman, 2008). In this study, the Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient is
used to test whether there is correlation between different groups of respondents.

--- Página 225 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
209
(iii) Factor analysis Factor analysis as an inferential statistical analysis tool is
used as a data-reduction method to reduce a large number of variables to a small
number of factors to facilitate the process of summarising the data which has
been collected. Pallant (2007) states that in order to conduct factor analysis the
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO) test and Bartlett’s test need to be conducted. For fac-
tor analysis to be considered appropriate, the Bartlett’s test of sphericity value
should be significant (p < 0.05), while for the KMO test, the suggested minimum
outcome must be at least 0.6 (KMO score ranging from 0 to 1). The KMO test’s
benchmarks are as follows: if the KMO measure is in the 0.90s, the sampling is
considered marvellous. If the outcome is in the 0.80s, then the sampling is consid-
ered meritorious; if it is in the 0.70s, then the sample is middling; if it is in the 0.60s,
then the sample is mediocre; if it is in 0.50s, then the sample is deemed miserable;
and lastly, if it is below 0.50, then the sample is unacceptable (Pallant, 2007).
In this study, factor analysis was used for Questions 11 and 16 to test whether
the observed variables can be explained largely or entirely in terms of a much
smaller number of components. This also helps to organise large numbers of fac-
tors into components generated by the study.
(iv) MANOVA Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) is a generalised
form of univariate analysis of variance (ANOVA). It is used when there are two or
more dependent variables (Tabachnick and Fidell, 2006). MANOVA tests aim to
establish whether mean difference among groups on a combination of dependent
variables is likely to occur by chance (Pallant, 2007). In this study, after conduct-
ing factor analysis, the MANOVA test was computed for Questions 11 and 16
in order to investigate if there is any significant difference between the compo-
nent groups identified by factor analysis in relation to some control variables. This
helps to locate the impact or significance of each control variable on the generated
distribution and components.
(v) Friedman test The Friedman test is used to find a tendency for some
variables to receive higher ranks than others, for example, assigning the ranks of
1 to 10 to the most preferred and least preferred variables respectively (Creswell,
1994). The Friedman test ranks the scores for each of the cases and then
calculates the mean score for each sample. If there is no significant difference
between the samples, their mean score ranks should be similar (Bryman, 2008).
The Friedman test determines whether the rank totals for each condition or
variable differ significantly from the values which would be expected by chance
(Bryman, 2008).
In this study, the Friedman test was used in Questions 9 and 10 to examine
whether there is a significant difference between the respondents’ perceptions in
ranking the given options. The significance level used for this Friedman test is 1%.

--- Página 226 ---
210
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
(vi) Interpretative analysis In addition to these quantitative methods, an inter-
pretative approach was employed to provide further meaning to the results of
the questionnaires and in-depth understanding of the issues in an integrated man-
ner. This interpretative approach introduces interaction between the primary data
findings and the literature review in order to provide better understanding of the
findings of the questionnaire analysis.
Qualitative data analysis
Analysis of qualitative data collected through
semi-structured interviews is more complex and demanding than analysis of
quantitative data. This means that unless great care is taken in analysis, it may
cause real harm to the research itself (Robson, 2011).
Since the interviews were based on open-ended questions, the researcher tran-
scribed all recorded interviews and read the interview notes and then transferred
them into segments representing complete thoughts on a single question or topic,
in line with the original research questions. All transcribed interviews were bro-
ken into coded segments representing complete thought statements. Answers were
codified according to the most common responses provided by interviewees. After
coding, the interview segments were transferred from word-processing format to
a spreadsheet for further analysis.
As Charmaz (1983:114) states “Codes serve to summarise, synthesise, and
sort many observations made of the data . . . coding becomes the fundamental
means of developing the analysis . . . Researchers use codes to pull together and
categorise a series of otherwise discrete events, statements, and observations
which they identify in the data . . . At first the data may appear to be a mass
of confusing, unrelated, accounts. But by studying and coding, the researcher
begins to create order.” Thus, the qualitative data collected through interview was
analysed by the use of coding analysis, which was conducted manually rather
than with the help of software such as n-vivo.
The findings generated through coding analysis were also subjected to inter-
pretative analysis with the objective of developing a better understanding of the
data and findings. This social constructivist-oriented method helps to develop an
integrative approach to the data to render a rich qualitative analysis.
DIFFICULTIES AND LIMITATIONS
This study, as any research, has experienced a number of challenges and con-
straints, which may have limited the range of the study both for the questionnaire
and the interviews. These issues are as follows:

--- Página 227 ---
Research Framework and Methodology
211
Limitation of the time available to the researcher was no doubt a restricting
factor as he was unable to increase the sample size, since to do so would have called
for more resources than were at his disposal. The coverage of the sample used in
this research, for both the questionnaire and the interviews, could be extended to
a larger number of banks across a wider range of countries to enrich the findings.
However, due to limitations of time and costs this was unfortunately not possible.
Also, more comprehensive data collection may help address some of the other
data-related issues recognised in this research.
The fact that the researcher is an Islamic banker known to most of the respon-
dents added some sensitivity. Some respondents were worried about the conflict of
interest and potential use of the information provided by the researcher’s employer,
despite assurances that the researcher is acting in his personal rather than profes-
sional capacity.
It should also be noted that some respondents expressed a degree of suspicion
concerning the objectives of the study despite assurances regarding anonymity and
strict confidentiality.
Other difficulties include:
(i) Incomplete questionnaires and ineligible text;
(ii) Void or biased responses; and finally
(iii) Due to the sampling technique limitations which have been highlighted, this
study is unable to use more robust statistical tools in analysing the data, such
as parametric statistical tools, which arguably are more powerful.
CONCLUSION
This chapter aimed to render a discussion of the research process by identify-
ing the details of the research and its conduct. Initially, the research objectives
and questions were developed and then the research propositions were formu-
lated. The chapter began by explaining the importance of research design and its
significant role in planning the overall research project. It also explained the cho-
sen research methodology for this research and the justification thereof. Research
methods in the form of survey questionnaires and semi-structured interviews were
discussed in some detail, emphasising their relevance to this research as confirmed
by both the research questions and hypotheses. Data reliability and validity were
also discussed with relevance to this study. In addition, the stages of conduct-
ing the fieldwork were briefly explained with emphasis on the practical phases of
collecting the primary data.

--- Página 228 ---
212
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The final part of this chapter discussed the statistical techniques which were
used to analyse the collected data. In this research, non-parametric statistical tests
were used due to violations of the distribution assumptions of parametric tests,
namely due to not having normally distributed data. Having discussed the research
instrument, the survey and interview samples, the pilot study, the administration
of the research instruments and the form of data analysis, the book continues with
the following chapters presenting the findings of the empirical work conducted.

--- Página 229 ---
CHAPTER7
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk
Dimensions in Islamic Finance
Descriptive Questionnaire Data Analysis
T
his chapter, the first of the empirical chapters, summarises the descriptive
findings from the collected primary data in terms of providing a quantitative
analysis of respondents’ answers to the self-administrated questionnaire. The
questionnaire follows the structure explained in Chapter 6, Research Framework
and Methodology, with the aim of empirically answering the research questions.
The chapter begins by providing a descriptive analysis of the general charac-
teristics of the respondents. Then the research questions and hypotheses, explained
in the previous chapter, are tested and general observations are made of the find-
ings. Cross-tabulation and descriptive statistics are used to provide indications of
respondents’ perceptions. The findings are examined with respect to the extant
literature review, while the second part of quantitative analysis – inferential statis-
tics – is presented in the Chapter 8. A more complete discussion of the research
findings will be provided in Chapter 10 in the context of existing knowledge and
information, and also in association with the findings of the qualitative interview
analysis, which will be separately presented in Chapter 9.
DATA ANALYSIS AND RESULTS
As mentioned in Chapter 6, the questionnaire survey was conducted between
February and November 2010. The questionnaires were distributed to 110
respondents in 18 selected countries among six global regions. The final sample
comprised of 72 surveys – a final response rate of 65.5%. The sample represented
a diverse geographic spread of institutions, and respondents were spread across
different departments and held different positions within their organisations.
Characteristics of the Respondents
The first part of the questionnaire aimed at identifying different characteristics of
the respondents. Among the many variables used in the study, the main control
213

--- Página 230 ---
214
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.1
Geographic distribution of the study sample
Country
Number of Questionaires
Percent of Final Sample
UK
21
29%
Egypt
9
13%
Bahrain
6
8%
France
4
6%
Germany
4
6%
Qatar
4
6%
Kuwait
3
4%
Malaysia
3
4%
Saudi Arabia
3
4%
Syria
3
4%
UAE
3
4%
Switzerland
2
3%
US
2
3%
Jordan
1
1%
Pakistan
1
1%
Palestine
1
1%
Singapore
1
1%
Turkey
1
1%
Total
72
100%
variables used to assess the respondents’ profiles are the primary location of the
financial institution, nature of operations and activities, and the accounting stan-
dards used. These control variables aim to test the effect of these characteristics
on the respondents’ answers.
Table 7.1 depicts the findings in relation to the primary country of operation
of the financial institution, which indicates that the majority of participating banks
are located in the UK followed by Egypt, Bahrain and France. GCC countries and
Malaysia follow, while Jordan, Pakistan, Palestine, Singapore and Turkey are each
represented by one financial institution in the sample.
In addition, Table 7.2 combines the financial institution’s main region of oper-
ation with the respondents’ positions. As can be seen in Table 7.2, Heads of Risk
Management and Risk Managers represent more than 32% of the sample, followed
by General Managers and Managing Directors. Respondents included only one

--- Página 231 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
215
TABLE 7.2
Breakdown of the positions of the participants
Participant’s Role Americas Europe GCC Other
Other
Middle
East
Southeast
Asia
Total
(Count)
Total
(%)
Analyst
1
2
2
5
7%
Auditor
2
2
3%
CEO
2
1
1
1
5
7%
Chief Financial
Officer
1
1
2
3%
Consultant
2
2
3%
Director
5
1
6
8%
General Manager
4
6
10
14%
Head of
Investment
Banking
1
1
1%
Head of Risk
Management
8
3
11
15%
Managing
Director
1
4
3
8
11%
Risk Manager
1
4
3
1
3
12
17%
Senior Analyst
3
1
4
6%
Senior Trader
1
1
2
3%
Shari’ah Scholar
1
1
1%
Solicitor
1
1
1%
Total (Count)
2
31
19
2
14
4
72
Total (%)
3%
43%
26%
3%
19%
6%
100%
Head of Investment Banking and one Shari’ah scholar. The participants’ length of
service at their organisations does not form part of this questionnaire.
The nature of the participating financial institutions is also investigated. As
can be seen in Table 7.3, out of the 72 institutions that participated in this study,
34.7% were fully fledged Islamic banks, with the remainder being conventional
banks with Islamic activities (19.4%), conventional banks (27.8%) and others
(18.1%).
Since the operational nature of the participating institutions has implications
for some of the questions in the questionnaire, the nature of activities of the finan-
cial institutions is also examined. As depicted in Table 7.4, respondents are almost
equally distributed among retail banking (14%), commercial banking (15%) and
investment banking (15%). Twenty-four percent of respondents stated that their

--- Página 232 ---
216
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.3
Nature of financial institution
Region
Nature of Institution
Americas
Europe
GCC
Other
Other
Middle
East
Southeast
Asia
Total
Audit Firm
3%
3%
Brokerage
1%
1%
Consulting Firm
3%
3%
Conventional Bank
3%
11%
4%
10%
28%
Conventional Bank
with Islamic activities
10%
10%
19%
Fully Fledged Islamic
Bank
7%
13%
3%
7%
6%
35%
Law Firm
3%
3%
Rating Agency
7%
7%
Sharia’a Scholar
1%
1%
Total
3%
43%
26%
3%
19%
6%
100%
TABLE 7.4
Activities of financial institution
Conventional
Bank
Conventional
Bank with
Islamic
activities
Fully
Fledged
Islamic
Bank
Others
Total
Commercial banking
4%
7%
4%
15%
Integrated banking
8%
4%
13%
Investment banking
6%
3%
7%
15%
Private Equity House
1%
1%
Retail & commercial
banking
10%
3%
11%
24%
Retail banking
3%
11%
14%
Other
18%
18%
Total
28%
19%
35%
18%
100%

--- Página 233 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
217
0%
Not applicable
Local accounting
standards
International
standards
International & AAOIFI
standards
AAOIFI standards
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
Conventional bank
Conventional bank with
Islamic activities
Fully fledged Islamic bank
Others
FIGURE 7.1
Accounting standards used by financial institution
institutions offer both retail and commercial banking, while 14% considered their
institution an integrated bank or private equity house. The ‘Other’ category (18%)
comprises of audit, consulting and law firms, together with rating agencies and
Shari’ah scholars.
Finally, the accounting standards utilised by the sampled financial institu-
tions were also asked about in the questionnaire. As illustrated in Figure 7.1, the
majority of the participating banks use international accounting standards (53%),
8.3% use AAOIFI standards, 13.9% use local accounting standards, while 6.9% of
respondents said their institutions adapt both AAOIFI and international standards
concurrently. Eighteen percent of respondents fall under the ‘Not Applicable’ cat-
egory as these respondents are not working for financial institutions.
Locating Risk Perception
Perceptions of risk issues in Islamic banks
Overall risks faced by Islamic banks Respondents were asked in Question 7
to express their perceptions of the severity of risks facing Islamic financial insti-
tutions (IFIs) by indicating the degree of importance of each risk on a five-point
Likert scale (ranking from Very Unimportant = 1 to Very Important = 5). In addi-
tion, Question 8, being an open-ended question, requested respondents to list any
additional risk(s) – in order of seriousness – that could affect IFIs.
The descriptive statistics in Table 7.5 demonstrate the importance attached to
each of the risk areas by the participants as faced by their financial institution. As
can be seen from Table 7.5, the mean values for the risk categories are between

--- Página 234 ---
218
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.5
Descriptive statistics for each type of risk (aggregate results)
Risk
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Liquidity Risk
72
4.01
4
5
0.000
Asset-Liability Management Risk
72
3.94
4
5
0.000
Reputation Risk
72
3.92
4
5
0.000
Concentration Risk
72
3.81
4
5
0.000
Credit Risk
72
3.75
4
4
0.000
Shari’ah- Non-Compliance Risk
72
3.71
4
3
0.000
Legal Risk
72
3.49
3
3
0.000
Corporate Governance Risk
72
3.21
3
2
0.108 N/S
Displaced Commercial Risk
69
2.94
3
4
0.160 N/S
Operational Risk
72
2.93
3
3
0.000
Equity Investment Risk
72
2.86
3
3
0.046
Fiduciary Risk
70
2.74
3
2
0.004
Market Risk
71
2.72
2
2
0.002
Notes: n = Number of responses; N/S indicates that the differences between the responses are not
significant at 5% using the Chi-Square test of significance
4.01 and 2.72, the median is between 4 and 2, and the mode is between 5 and 2.
However, due to the nature of the data collected using a Likert scale, the median
and the mode seem to be more appropriate measurements for this study. According
to Howell (1997), the major advantage of the median and the mode is that unlike
the mean, they are unaffected by extreme scores. Another advantage of these mea-
sures, when contrasted with the mean, is that they do not require any assumptions
about the interval properties of the scale.
Furthermore, the Chi-Square test, a non-parametric test, is used to explore fre-
quency data in order to test whether the data represents good fit or not. This study
uses a significance level of 5%. Since, for this question, for most risks (except
displaced commercial risk and corporate governance risk) the p-value is less than
0.05, it is concluded that for most risks there is goodness of fit between the data.
On an aggregate level, as can be seen from Table 7.5, liquidity risk is per-
ceived as the most severe risk facing IFIs with the highest mean value of 4.01
followed by asset–liability management (ALM) risk (3.94) and reputation risk
(3.92). Concentration, credit and Shari’ah-non-compliance risks followed the ini-
tial risk categories but were not recognised as being as critical as the top risks by
the participants. Among the risks listed, market risk was considered as the least
risky (2.72).

--- Página 235 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
219
It is no surprise that liquidity and ALM risks are ranked as the highest risks
facing the industry. The limited range of possible funding sources for IFIs and
the consistent focus on longer-term assets lead to concentrated liabilities, imbal-
anced funding mixes and stretched capital management strategies. The two risks
are closely correlated and the impact of liquidity risk is magnified by the lack
of money-market instruments to manage liquidity. These two risks, together with
reputation and concentration risks, support Research Hypothesis 1 about the top
risks facing IFIs.
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk has been ranked sixth as it is likely to be a
significant and unique risk for IFIs, since Shari’ah-compliance should be the core
focus of every IFI. Any divergence from Shari’ah principles exposes the IFI to a
wide range of risks at different levels as discussed in previous chapters.
Operational risk has been ranked tenth by respondents; this is not in line with
the researcher’s expectations as operational risk could be critical to IFIs due to
their specific contractual features. In addition, because of the relatively new nature
of Islamic banking, a lot of the issues related to operations need to be instituted.
These include people risk, creating computer programmes and legal documents,
etc. It should be noted that Research Hypothesis 1 does not consider operational
risk to be among the top five risks; however, a higher ranking was expected.
Market risk (incorporating rate-of-return risk, currency risk, commodity risk,
benchmark risk and mark-up risk) is incurred on instruments like commodities and
currencies traded in well-traded markets; this appears to be less risky for Islamic
banks. This risk arises from movements in the prices of goods/securities which are
usually a part of the trading book of a bank. On the banking book, conventional
banks trade in currencies, indices and bonds to boost their profitability and to keep
a part of their assets in liquid money-market instruments. Market risk tends to be
more speculative in nature. However, the majority of Shari’ah scholars forbid the
sale of debt, and trading in sukuk is almost non-existent among IFIs as most of them
hold the sukuk until maturity. Islamic banks, however, can trade in commodities
and asset-backed securities; however, not too many IFIs are involved in this, and
this may be a reason for the low ranking of market risk.
Equity investment risk was intentionally separated from market risk in
the questionnaire as profit and loss sharing (PLS) through musharakah and
mudarabah contracts should be the essence of Islamic banking. Unfortunately,
IFIs in practice tend to allocate limited funds to equities and therefore equity
investment risk was ranked among the lowest risks recognised by bankers.
As more IFIs shift their strategic attention to equities after the drying up of
international money markets and the attractive equity investment opportunities
emerging following the recent crisis, equity investment risk is expected to attract
more attention in the Islamic banking world.

--- Página 236 ---
220
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Of note is the low rank given to displaced commercial risk, as the practice
of smoothing investment returns through Profit Equalisation Reserves (PERs),
Investment Risk Reserves (IRRs) and active management of mudarib fees is a very
common feature of IFIs to avoid random, business and confidence-driven liquidity
crises. In addition, it was observed that some respondents did not understand what
is meant by displaced commercial risk, despite its being defined in the question-
naire. This was reflected in the relatively lower number of responses for this risk
category (69) compared to the others.
In order to examine the risk perceptions further, Table 7.6 breaks down the
risk perceptions according to the nature of the financial institutions: Islamic
banks, conventional banks (including those offering Islamic activities) and Others.
For each category of financial institution, the mean ranking of risk categories are
presented.
The results depicted in Table 7.6 can be summarised as follows:
(i) The top four risks identified by Islamic bankers are the same top four risks
ranked by the total sample in aggregate (see Table 7.5).
(ii) Three out of the top four risks identified by Islamic bankers are also listed by
conventional bankers among the top four risks.
(iii) Only two out of the top four risks identified by Islamic bankers are among
the top four risks ranked by Others; these are reputation and ALM risks.
(iv) Different patterns exist for the last four risk categories; however, no trends
could be identified.
(v) Islamic bankers’ risk perception of corporate governance risk (2.96) is notice-
ably lower than the risk perception of conventional bankers (3.29) and Others
(3.46). This is contrary to the literature review, which indicates that weak cor-
porate governance structure is a general feature of Islamic banking. Also, the
inferential statistics analysis in Chapter 8 proves that corporate governance
is the most statistically significant risk facing IFIs across a number of control
variables. In fact, corporate governance is a significant risk facing IFIs. How-
ever, the Islamic bankers included in this sample are mainly from the Middle
East and the GCC, and their risk perceptions are influenced by cultural and
social aspects.
It should also be noted that the results in Table 7.6 indicate that bankers,
whether Islamic or non-Islamic, have a better understanding of the Islamic bank-
ing model and its risk architecture than non-bankers (Others), who tend to be more
theoretical in their approach.
In supporting the findings in Table 7.6, Table 7.7 spreads the responses of
each group across the five scaling criteria through frequency distribution. This
provides a better understanding of the risk perception of each group and helps to
reach significant findings.

--- Página 237 ---
TABLE 7.6
Risk perception among different groups
Islamic Banks
Conventional Banks
Others
Risk
Mean
Risk
Mean
Risk
Mean
Liquidity Risk
4.48
Liquidity Risk
3.79
Reputation Risk
4.23
ALM Risk
4.44
Credit Risk
3.62
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance Risk
4.00
Reputation Risk
4.44
ALM Risk
3.62
ALM Risk
3.85
Concentration Risk
4.36
Concentration Risk
3.47
Credit Risk
3.69
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance Risk
4.24
Legal Risk
3.47
Liquidity Risk
3.69
Credit Risk
3.96
Reputation Risk
3.41
Concentration Risk
3.62
Legal Risk
3.56
Corporate Governance Risk
3.29
Market Risk
3.54
Equity Investment Risk
3.16
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance Risk
3.21
Corporate Governance Risk
3.46
Operational Risk
3.00
Displaced Commercial Risk
3.18
Legal Risk
3.38
Corporate Governance Risk
2.96
Operational Risk
2.85
Operational Risk
3.00
Fiduciary Risk
2.79
Fiduciary Risk
2.71
Equity Investment Risk
2.92
Displaced Commercial Risk
2.76
Equity Investment Risk
2.62
Fiduciary Risk
2.75
Market Risk
2.48
Market Risk
2.58
Displaced Commercial Risk
2.64
Note: Conventional banks include Islamic subsidiaries
221

--- Página 238 ---
222
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
As depicted by the frequency distribution in Table 7.7, there is similarity in
risk perceptions between Islamic and conventional bankers. This will be further
emphasised by the results of the Kruskall-Wallis test of significance in Chapter 8,
which proves that there is a general trend in terms of risk perception that can be
attributed to prevailing market conditions.
Finally, under open-ended Question 8, two respondents added political and
country risks as additional risks facing IFIs. Most Muslim countries have a
high degree of corruption, political instability and weak currencies, which add
political and country risks for IFIs. However, the lesson from the recent political
unrest and revolutions in the Middle East is that political risk indeed matters and
remains an important risk category area considering the volatility of the political
circumstances. However, as an Islamic finance risk category, this was largely
ignored. It should be also acknowledged that political risks are hard to predict
and are not recurring. However, considering the recent and current political
developments in the Middle East, if the questionnaire is to be administered now,
namely after the eruption of the Middle Eastern revolutions, political risk would
most likely attract much higher scores given that most Islamic banks are located
in, or directly affected by, Middle Eastern events, with the Middle East being the
main liquidity source for IFIs. Lastly, in locating the risk categories for the IFI,
one respondent mentioned regulatory risk, and another added technical risks.
Perceived risk levels of Islamic finance contracts The questionnaire also aims
at locating the perceptions and opinions of the respondents on various Islamic
modes of financing. While Question 9 covers the intensity of use of different
Islamic finance contracts, Question 10 searches for feedback on the risks inher-
ent or perceived to be attached in those contracts. Question 9 is applicable only
to IFIs and conventional banks with Islamic activities, while such restriction does
not hold for Question 10.
(i) Intensity of use of different Islamic financial contracts Table 7.8 summarises
the mean values of Islamic finance contracts. As expected, murabahah contracts
are by far the most-used contracts. This ‘murabahah syndrome’ has been under
criticism from many Islamic economists and some Shari’ah scholars, but unfor-
tunately still remains the backbone of Islamic banking and finance (IBF). In addi-
tion to the findings in this study, other studies in the literature also demonstrate
that murabahah has been intensively used by IFIs for money-market transactions,
investment and retail activities. Recently, more banks began using walaka for
money-market transactions to replace the commodity murabahah, which brings
about more complications and raises Shari’ah concerns.
The low mean values for musharakah and mudarabah in Table 7.8 reflect
Islamic banks’ reluctance to hold risk-sharing assets. In addition, the analysis

--- Página 239 ---
TABLE 7.7
Frequency distribution of risk perceptions
Islamic Banks
Conventional Banks
Others
Risk
VI
I
N
U
VU
VI
I
N
U
VU
VI
I
N
U
VU
Credit Risk
20%
60%
16%
4%
0%
18%
38%
35%
6%
3%
23%
31%
38%
8%
0%
Market Risk
8%
24%
8%
28%
32%
6%
12%
21%
55%
6%
23%
38%
15%
15%
8%
Operational Risk
8%
20%
44%
20%
8%
3%
29%
26%
32%
9%
8%
31%
23%
31%
8%
Equity Investment Risk
16%
24%
36%
8%
16%
9%
18%
26%
21%
26%
8%
15%
46%
23%
8%
Liquidity Risk
64%
24%
8%
4%
0%
35%
26%
24%
12%
3%
38%
23%
15%
15%
8%
ALM Risk
60%
28%
8%
4%
0%
29%
26%
24%
18%
3%
38%
31%
15%
8%
8%
Displaced Commercial Risk
8%
20%
36%
12%
24%
15%
39%
12%
15%
18%
9%
18%
27%
18%
27%
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance Risk
44%
36%
20%
0%
0%
15%
18%
41%
26%
0%
38%
23%
38%
0%
0%
Concentration Risk
52%
36%
8%
4%
0%
26%
24%
26%
18%
6%
23%
23%
46%
8%
0%
Reputation Risk
52%
40%
8%
0%
0%
26%
26%
18%
21%
9%
46%
38%
8%
8%
0%
Fiduciary Risk
8%
17%
33%
29%
13%
18%
6%
24%
35%
18%
8%
8%
42%
33%
8%
Corporate Governance Risk
12%
20%
32%
24%
12%
24%
26%
12%
32%
6%
31%
23%
15%
23%
8%
Legal Risk
16%
44%
24%
12%
4%
26%
12%
44%
18%
0%
15%
23%
46%
15%
0%
Note 1: Scale: 1 = Very Unimportant (VU), 2 = Unimportant (U), 3 = Neutral (N), 4 = Important (I), 5 = Very Important (VI)
Note 2: Conventional banks include Islamic subsidiaries
223

--- Página 240 ---
224
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.8
Intensity of use of Islamic finance contracts
Risk
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Murabaha
39
6.95
1
1
0.00
Wakala
39
5.56
2
2
0.00
Ijarah
39
4.28
4
4
0.00
Mudaraba
39
4.00
4
4
0.01
Istisna’a
39
2.46
6
6
0.00
Musharaka
39
2.41
6
5
0.00
Salaam
39
2.33
6
7
0.00
Notes: n = Number of responses; Question 9 is applicable only to IFIs
and conventional banks with Islamic activities
revealed that salam has a long way to go before becoming commonly used by
Islamic banks. It is evident from the responses that the banks’ first preference is
for financial instruments that are generated through debt-creating, sale contracts
and leasing instruments. This is enhanced by the responses about risk perception
in different modes of financing.
These findings are supported by the results of the Chi-Square test as reported
in Table 7.8, which indicated that the Chi-Square values related to the goodness
of fit of the risk categories are highly significant (p < 1%).
In addition, as depicted in Table 7.9, Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient
between the medians of Islamic banks and conventional banks offering Islamic
products shows that at 5% significance level the rankings of the two groups are
correlated (ρ = 0.9420 > 0.714).
TABLE 7.9
Correlation between Islamic and conventional banks in using Islamic
finance contracts
Islamic Banks
Median
Conventional Banks
Median
Difference
(Difference) 2
Murabaha
1
1
0
0
Wakala
2
2.5
0.5
0.25
Mudaraba
4
3
−1
1
Ijarah
4
4
0
0
Musharaka
5
6
1
1
Istisna’a
6
6
0
0
Salam
6
5
−1
1
Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient
0.94196

--- Página 241 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
225
TABLE 7.10
Risk perception in Islamic finance contracts
Risk
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Mudaraba
72
6.21
1
1
0.00
Musharaka
72
5.89
2
1
0.00
Istisna’a
70
4.20
3.5
3
0.00
Salaam
71
3.75
4
5
0.00
Ijarah
71
3.73
4
2
0.01
Wakala
72
2.26
6
6
0.00
Murabaha
72
1.90
7
7
0.00
Notes: n = Number of responses
(ii) Perceptions of risks attached to various Islamic finance contracts Table 7.10
emphasises the perception that the profit-sharing modes of financing have
higher risks, while fixed-income contracts (such as ijara and murabahah) are
perceived as least risky. The main reason for higher concern regarding partnership
contracts may be that ‘principals’ invested are not guaranteed under partnership
modes of finance. In addition, these instruments are usually of a long-term
nature. This is particularly true for real estate projects, while fixed-income
contracts are perceived to have shorter maturities and to be less risky, with some
‘implied’ guarantees. Even though ijarah contracts may be long term, they can
be adjusted to reflect changing market conditions. It is important to note that
the manipulation of the contracts by Islamic finance practitioners resulted in
the equity and risk-sharing contracts, for instance wakala, sharing the same risk
characteristics as fixed-income contracts. This created a gap in risk perceptions
among different groups of respondents. These findings are supported by the
results of the Chi-Square test, which indicate the presence of goodness of fit for
the financial contracts with high significance level (p < 1%).
In addition, as shown in Table 7.11, Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient
between the medians of Islamic banks and conventional banks offering Islamic
products shows that at 5% significance level the rankings of the two groups are
correlated (ρ = 0.8929 > 0.714).
In furthering the analysis, intensity of use of Islamic finance contracts were
correlated with the attached risk perceptions regarding the respective financial con-
tracts. This is depicted in Figure 7.2, which demonstrates that Islamic finance
contracts that are perceived as higher risk (like mudarabah and musharakah) are
much less used by banks than less risky contracts. In fact, murabahah scored the
lowest mean on the risk matrix (1.90) compared to the highest mean on the inten-
sity of use (6.95). This reflects the extent to which banks are shying away from

--- Página 242 ---
226
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.11
Correlation between Islamic and conventional banks in risk
perception about Islamic finance contracts
Islamic Banks
Median
Conventional Banks
Median
Difference
(Difference)2
Murabaha
7
7
0
0
Mudaraba
1
1
0
1
Wakala
6
6
0
1
Ijarah
4
4
0
1
Musharaka
2
2
0
1
Istisna’a
3
4
1
1
Salam
4
4
0
1
Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient
0.89286
8.00
Mean
Intensity of Use
Risk Perception
7.00
6.00
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
Mudaraba
Musharaka
Istisna’a
Wakala
Salaam
Ijarah
Murabaha
FIGURE 7.2
Islamic finance contracts: Intensity of use versus risk perception
risk-taking or equity participation. Manipulation of the contracts changed the risk
characteristics of these contracts from principles defined by Islamic finance. This
manipulation caused the Islamic finance contracts to behave differently and thus
they are perceived differently by practitioners on the risk scale. Thus, the FIs are
heavily using less risky products regardless of the aspirational expectations related
to asset-based Islamic finance.
Additional risk issues facing IFIs Question 11 asked respondents for their
views on some risk and risk management issues related to IFIs that were identified
in the literature review. This is a closed question that provided 11 statements and
respondents were requested to express their preference in terms of how strongly

--- Página 243 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
227
Islamic banking in its current state is a safer
option than conventional banking
Corporate governance is generally weak in
Islamic banks
AAOIFI and IFSB standards should be made
mandatory for Islamic banks
Non-Sharia’a compliance could severely
damage the reputation of an Islamic bank
Variation among Sharia’a scholars’ opinions
represent a major risk to Islamic banking
Depositors would hold the bank responsible for a
lower rate of return on their deposits
In an Islamic bank, a low rate of return on
deposits will lead to withdrawal of funds
Risk management for Islamic banks is more
challenging than it is for conventional banks
Risk for Islamic banks should be managed using
the same techniques used in conventional banking
Islamic banking is more risky by nature than
conventional banking
There is naturally inherent conservatism in the
principles of Islamic finance
23.6%
5.6%
22.2%
23.6%
40.3%
8.3%
18.1%
41.7%
23.6%
12.5%
9.7%
8.3%
8.3%
9.7%
15.3%
18.1%
34.7%
22.2%
30.6%
12.5%
31.9%
16.7%
22.2%
43.1%
22.2%
12.5%
40.3%
23.6%
23.6%
4.2%
34.7%
27.8%
27.8%
41.7%
27.8%
18.1%
36.1%
26.4%
9.7% 4.2%
4.2%
44.4%
8.3%
5.6%
15.3%
23.6%
40.3%
51.4%
16.7%
4.2%
Strongly Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly Disagree
FIGURE 7.3
Additional risk management issues facing IFIs
they agreed or disagreed with each statement. The five-point Likert scale was
used with answers labelled ‘strongly agree’, ‘agree’, neutral’, ‘disagree’ and
‘strongly disagree’. The findings based on frequency results are summarised in
Figure 7.3 and Table 7.12, which ranks the importance of statements according to
their mean values.
As can be seen in Table 7.12, the Chi-Square values indicate that the responses
for all these statements but one are significant at the 5% level. Furthermore, the
findings indicate that the majority of respondents (56.9%) believe that risk for
Islamic banks should be managed using different techniques than those used in
conventional banking. Although more than 48% of respondents consider that the
Islamic finance principles contain naturally built-in conservatism, around 75% of
respondents think that the malpractices in Islamic banking in its current state made
it a riskier mode of finance than conventional banking.
The following salient points are identified in Table 7.12 and Figure 7.3:
(i) The findings demonstrate that, although respondents do not perceive Islamic
banking to be by nature a more risky model than conventional banking,
Islamic banks as they stand today could be more risky than conventional
banks.

--- Página 244 ---
TABLE 7.12
Frequency results of responses to statements under Question 11
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Non-Sharia’a compliance could severely
damage the reputation of an Islamic bank
41.7%
44.4%
8.3%
5.6%
0.0%
72
4.22
4
4
0.00
Risk management for Islamic banks is more
challenging than it is for conventional banks
22.2%
43.1%
22.2%
12.5%
0.0%
72
3.75
4
4
0.00
Variation among Sharia’a scholars’
opinions represent a major risk to Islamic
banking
23.6%
36.1%
26.4%
9.7%
4.2%
72
3.65
4
4
0.00
AAOIFI and IFSB standards should be made
mandatory on Islamic banks
18.1%
15.3%
23.6%
40.3%
2.8%
72
3.51
4
4
0.44
Depositors would hold the bank
responsible for a lower rate of return on
their deposits
12.5%
41.7%
27.8%
18.1%
0.0%
72
3.49
4
4
0.00
In an Islamic bank, a low rate of return on
deposits will lead to withdrawal of funds
9.7%
34.7%
27.8%
27.8%
0.0%
72
3.26
3
4
0.00
There is naturally inherent conservatism
in the principles of Islamic finance
8.3%
40.3%
23.6%
23.6%
4.2%
72
3.25
3
4
0.00
Corporate governance is generally weak in
Islamic banks
8.3%
40.3%
23.6%
22.2%
5.6%
72
3.24
3
4
0.00
Islamic banking is more risky by nature
than conventional banking
8.3%
30.6%
12.5%
31.9%
16.7%
72
2.82
3
2
0.00
Risks for Islamic banks should be managed
using same techniques used in conventional
banking
9.7%
15.3%
18.1%
34.7%
22.2%
72
2.56
2
2
0.01
Islamic banking in its current state is a
safer option than conventional banking
4.2%
4.2%
16.7%
51.4%
23.6%
72
2.14
2
2
0.00
Notes: n = Number of responses; Scale: 1 = Strongly Disagree (SD), 2 = Disagree (D), 3 = Neutral (N), 4 = Agree (A), 5 = Strongly Agree (SA)
228

--- Página 245 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
229
(ii) As the findings show, risk management for IFIs is more challenging than it
is for conventional banks.
(iii) The findings indicate that risks for IFIs cannot be managed using conven-
tional risk management tools and techniques.
(iv) The findings in Table 7.12 and Figure 7.3. show that not only do IFIs face
some risks that are different from those faced by their conventional peers,
but these risks are also more serious and not well understood.
(v) It can be generalised from the findings that Shari’ah principles carry natural
inherent conservatism.
(vi) It is important to state that despite the principles of Islamic finance, deposi-
tors seek competitive rates of return from IFIs.
(vii) In addition to the risk categories identified in the previous section, displaced
commercial risk and Shari’ah standardisation are obvious examples of addi-
tional challenges facing IFIs.
(viii) As a particular risk area for Islamic banking, the Shari’ah-non-compliance
risk could be a severe risk for IFIs. This is emphasised by the responses
under Question 7.
(ix) As the findings demonstrate, the majority of respondents do not believe that
AAOIFI and IFSB standards should be made mandatory for Islamic banks.
(x) Importantly, the results also demonstrate that weak corporate governance is
noticeable among IFIs.
Gauging perceptions of capital adequacy for Islamic banks
This section
addresses capital adequacy issues facing IFIs as perceived by the participants.
It tackles the research questions concerning whether the Basel II and Basel III
Accords were drafted with the conventional banking model in mind, and also
aims to identify the appropriate capital requirement levels for Islamic banks as
perceived by the participants.
As shown by Figure 7.4, the majority of respondents (59.7%) expressed their
adherence to the Basel II guidelines. Interestingly, 12.9% of the participants stated
that their institution used IFSB standards on capital adequacy, and 6.9% stated that
they used local standards imposed by the regulator (mainly Egyptian banks), which
are highly likely to be derived mainly from Basel II guidelines.
Among those implementing Basel II (43 respondents), the majority of the
participants stated that their institution used the less sophisticated approaches to
calculate credit, market and operational risks due to their relatively limited size of
operations and the absence of advanced IT systems, as summarised in Table 7.13.
Conventional multinational banks use a combination of different approaches for
different portfolios; however, the ‘Advanced’ techniques dominate. As the findings
demonstrate, among IFIs, it is mainly the Islamic windows of big international

--- Página 246 ---
230
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
70%
22%
3%
10%
3%
3%
4%
18%
14%
24%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Basel II
standards
Don’t know
IFSB
standards
Local
standards
Not
applicable
Conventional bank
Conventional bank with
Islamic activities/windows
Fully fledged Islamic bank
Others
FIGURE 7.4
Frequency distribution of capital adequacy standards used by
respondents
TABLE 7.13
Descriptive statistics for Question 13: Capital
requirement methodologies used
n
Percentage of Total
Credit Risk
Standardised Approach
25
59.5%
Foundation IRB
5
11.9%
Advanced IRB
12
28.6%
Total
42
100.0%
Market Risk
Standardised Approach
29
69.0%
Internal Models Approach
13
31.0%
Total
42
100.0%
Operational Risk
Basic Indicator Approach
24
57.1%
Advanced Measurement Approach
18
42.9%
Total
42
100.0%
Notes: n = Number of responses; for multinational banks that use more than
one methodology, the most advanced methodology is the one counted

--- Página 247 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
231
Don’t know
Higher
Same
Lower
0%
10%
3%
11%
17%
7%
3%
1%
15%
26%
13%
1% 3%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
Fully fledged Islamic bank
Conventional bank with
Islamic activities/windows
Conventional bank
Others
FIGURE 7.5
Evaluating capital requirements for Islamic banks versus conventional
banks
banks that selected the ‘Advanced’ capital adequacy approaches as they make use
of the infrastructure and systems available at their parent companies.
The participants were asked to evaluate the capital requirements for Islamic
and conventional banks. The responses to Question 14 in Figure 7.5 and Table 7.14
produced unexpected findings, as more than 65% of participants believe that cap-
ital requirements for IFIs should be higher than those for their conventional peers.
This could be understood as meaning, as things stand today, that Islamic banking
carries more risks and hence should have higher capital buffers in order to enable
IFIs absorb unexpected losses.
The participants’ opinions on Basel II and IFSB Capital Adequacy Standards
were also requested, as Question 15 of the questionnaire asked respondents for
their views on additional capital adequacy issues. This closed question provided
five statements, and respondents were requested to express their preference in
terms of how strongly they agree or disagree with each statement. The results,
using the five-point Likert scale, are summarised below. The frequency results for
the whole sample are summarised by Figure 7.6, while Table 7.15, which breaks
down the findings for Islamic bankers and non-Islamic bankers (including Islamic
subsidiaries, conventional banks and others), ranks the importance of statements
according to their mean values.
From Table 7.15 and Figure 7.6, the following generalisation can be made:
(i) On aggregate level, the majority of respondents had ‘No’ views about the
new Basel III standards and their effects on Islamic banking and financial
stability in general. This shows that there is still lack of clarity about Basel
III and its potential impacts. Around one-third of respondents do not believe
that the new standards, with their stricter capital, leverage and liquidity rules,
are likely to prevent another financial crisis. Almost the same percentage of

--- Página 248 ---
232
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.14
Evaluating capital requirements for Islamic banks versus conventional
banks
Region
Fully Fledged
Islamic Bank
Conventional
Bank
Conventional
Bank with
Islamic
Activities
Others
Total
Don’t know Europe
1.4%
2.8%
4.2%
GCC
1.4%
1.4%
0.0%
2.8%
Higher
Americas
2.8%
0.0%
2.8%
Europe
5.6%
11.1%
6.9%
11.1%
34.7%
GCC
2.8%
2.8%
8.3%
0.0%
13.9%
Other Middle East
1.4%
9.7%
1.4%
12.5%
Southeast Asia
1.4%
0.0%
1.4%
Lower
Europe
1.4%
1.4%
GCC
2.8%
0.0%
2.8%
Other
1.4%
0.0%
1.4%
Other Middle East
1.4%
1.4%
2.8%
Southeast Asia
1.4%
0.0%
1.4%
Same
Europe
1.4%
1.4%
0.0%
2.8%
GCC
6.9%
0.0%
6.9%
Other
1.4%
0.0%
1.4%
Other Middle East
4.2%
0.0%
4.2%
Southeast Asia
2.8%
0.0%
2.8%
Total
34.7%
27.8%
19.4%
18.1%
100%
respondents do not think that the Basel III standards will be easily applicable
to IFIs. The breakdown between Islamic and non-Islamic bankers reveals the
same pattern.
(ii) A similar pattern exists between the two groups regarding their views about
the failings of Basel II to prevent the recent crisis. The majority of respondents
support this view, with zero responding ‘D’ or ‘SD’ on the need to review
Basel II standards.
(iii) While most non-Islamic bankers (46.8%) believe that Basel II standards
should be equally applied to IFIs without modification, most Islamic bankers
support the opposite (44%). On aggregate level no consensus pattern is
obvious, with the ‘SA’ and ‘A’ side scoring slightly higher than the ‘D’ and
‘SD’ side.
(iv) A similar pattern exists between the views of the two groups regarding the
use of the IFSB standards by IFIs with the majority favouring the ‘SA’ and
‘A’ side over the ‘D’ and ‘SD’ side.

--- Página 249 ---
TABLE 7.15
Breakdown of perceptions of capital adequacy standards
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Basel II standards should be reviewed
after failing to prevent the current crisis
40.0%
48.0%
12.0%
0.0%
0.0%
25
4.28
4
4
0.00
IFSB standard on Capital Adequacy should
be used by Islamic banks rather than Basel II
24.0%
12.0%
44.0%
16.0%
4.0%
25
3.36
3
3
0.02
Stricter capital, leverage, and liquidity
rules, as proposed under Basel III, are
likely to prevent another financial crisis.
4.0%
20.0%
48.0%
24.0%
4.0%
25
2.96
3
3
0.00
Basel II standards should be equally applied
to Islamic banks without modification
4.0%
32.0%
20.0%
32.0%
12.0%
25
2.84
3
2
0.11
The proposed Basel III rules would be easily
applicable to Islamic banks
0.0%
8.0%
48.0%
36.0%
8.0%
25
2.56
3
3
0.00
Non-Islamic Bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries and conventional banks)
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-square
Basel II standards should be reviewed
after failing to prevent the current crisis
36.2%
51.1%
12.8%
0.0%
0.0%
47
4.23
4
4
0.00
Basel II standards should be equally applied
to Islamic banks without modification
21.3%
25.5%
25.5%
23.4%
4.3%
47
3.36
3
3
0.11
IFSB standard on Capital Adequacy should
be used by Islamic banks rather than Basel II
21.3%
14.9%
36.2%
21.3%
6.4%
47
3.23
3
3
0.02
The proposed Basel III rules would be easily
applicable to Islamic banks
0.0%
6.4%
74.5%
10.6%
8.5%
47
2.79
3
3
0.00
Stricter capital, leverage and liquidity rules,
as proposed under Basel III, are likely to
prevent another financial crisis.
2.1%
6.4%
57.4%
31.9%
2.1%
47
2.74
3
3
0.00
Notes: n = Number of responses; Scale: 1 = Strongly Disagree (SD), 2 = Disagree (D), 3 = Neutral (N), 4 = Agree (A), 5 = Strongly Agree (SA)
233

--- Página 250 ---
234
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
2.8% 11.1%
6.9%
37.5%
22.2%
15.3%
27.8%
23.6%
26.4%
6.9%
13.9%
38.9%
19.4%
5.6%
50.0%
12.5%
65.3%
19.4%
8.3%
54.2%
29.2%
2.8%
Stricter capital, leverage and liquidity rules,
as proposed under Basel III, are likely to prevent
another financial crisis
The proposed Basel III rules would be easily
applicable to Islamic banks
Basel II standards should be reviewed after
failing to prevent the current crisis
IFSB standard on Capital Adequacy should
be used by Islamic banks rather than basel II
Basel II standards should be equally applied
to Islamic banks without modification
Strongly Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly Disagree
FIGURE 7.6
Perceptions about capital adequacy standards
(v) As shown in Table 7.15, Islamic and non-Islamic bankers rank the statements
differently. This divergence in the mean rankings reflects differences in risk
perceptions.
It should be noted that these findings are supported by the Chi-Square values
as depicted in Table 7.15, which indicate that the data for all statements but one
represent a good fit at the 5% level.
The credit crisis and Islamic banks
This last section of Part Two of the
questionnaire aimed to reveal the respondents’ views on different issues relating
to the global crisis. This closed question provided nine statements and respondents
were requested to express their opinion in terms of how strongly they agree or
disagree with each statement. The frequency results for the entire sample are
summarised by Figure 7.7, while Table 7.16 breaks down the findings for Islamic
bankers and non-Islamic bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries, conventional
banks and others), and ranks the importance of statements according to their
mean values.
The findings in Figure 7.7 and Table 7.16 can be generalised as follows:
As can be seen from the responses, both groups support the view that IFIs
are more resilient to economic shock than their conventional peers. Seventy-two
percent of Islamic bankers ranked this statement either ‘SA’ or ‘A’, while 40% of
non-Islamic bankers chose either ‘SA’ or ‘A’.

--- Página 251 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
235
Strongly Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly Disagree
Consolidation is needed among smaller
Islamic banks
Islamic banks will emerge stronger from
the current crisis
Islamic finance industry should develop
its own rating agencies
Islamic banks rely less on rating agencies
than conventional banks
Banks in general used to rely
heavily on rating agencies
Risk management must be
embedded institutionally
Islamic finance can solve the global crisis
The recent crisis would not have happened
under a true Islamic banking system
Islamic banks are more resilient to economic
shocks than their conventional peers
43.1%
15.3%
12.5%
8.3%
26.4%
48.6%
9.7%
25.0%
25.0%
26.4%
26.4%
16.7%
5.6%
41.7%
16.7%
11.1% 5.6%
25.0%
37.5%
18.1%
9.7%
30.6%
20.8%
30.6%
34.7%
5.6%2.8%
25.0%
43.1%
20.8%
2.8%
20.8%
29.2%
23.6%
13.9%
50.0%
19.4%
9.7% 5.6%
26.4%
27.8%
2.8%
FIGURE 7.7
Perceptions of Islamic banking and the global financial crisis
In addition, on aggregate level more than 66% of respondents support the
view that the crisis would not have happened under a true Islamic banking system.
This was further emphasised by the 34.7% who believe that Islamic finance can
solve the global crisis. A breakdown of the two groups shows varying patterns:
76% of Islamic bankers, the total of ‘Strongly Agree’ or ‘Agree’, stated that the
crisis would not have happened under a true Islamic banking system, a view shared
by circa 61% of non-Islamic bankers. However, while the majority of the former
support the view that Islamic finance can solve the global crisis, the majority of
non-bankers are not of this view.
Furthermore, most respondents (56.9%) agree that banks in general heav-
ily relied on rating agencies. The same view is shared among the Islamic and
non-Islamic bankers. In aggregate, there was no consensus as to whether Islamic
banks rely less or more on rating agencies than do conventional banks; however,
surprisingly enough, more non-Islamic bankers believe that IFIs rely less on rating
agencies than do Islamic bankers, with the majority of these declining such a view.
Moreover, some respondents believe that conventional rating agencies do not
fully understand and appreciate certain aspects of IFIs, principally the fiduciary
aspect, and that conventional rating methodologies do not recognise the need for a
different approach to capital adequacy calculation and accounting standards. How-
ever, there is no consensus either on the aggregate level or by non-Islamic bankers
as to whether the Islamic finance industry needs to develop its own rating agen-
cies. The majority of Islamic bankers did not support such a view (44%). Although
there are some important differences between Islamic and conventional banks that

--- Página 252 ---
TABLE 7.16
Perceptions of Islamic banking and the financial crisis
Total Sample
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Risk management must be embedded
institutionally
48.6%
30.6%
20.8%
0.0%
0.0%
72
4.28
4
5
0.00
Consolidation is needed among smaller
Islamic banks
43.1%
26.4%
27.8%
2.8%
0.0%
72
4.10
4
5
0.00
Banks in general used to rely heavily on
rating agencies
26.4%
30.6%
34.7%
5.6%
2.8%
72
3.72
4
3
0.00
The recent crisis would not have
happened under a true Islamic banking
system
25.0%
41.7%
16.7%
11.1%
5.6%
72
3.69
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks will emerge stronger
from the current crisis
15.3%
50.0%
19.4%
9.7%
5.6%
72
3.60
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks are more resilient to
economic shocks than their
conventional peers
25.0%
26.4%
26.4%
16.7%
5.6%
72
3.49
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks rely less on rating
agencies than conventional banks
8.3%
25.0%
43.1%
20.8%
2.8%
72
3.15
3
3
0.00
Islamic finance could have solved the
global crisis
9.7%
25.0%
37.5%
18.1%
9.7%
72
3.07
3
3
0.00
Islamic finance industry should develop
its own rating agencies
12.5%
20.8%
29.2%
23.6%
13.9%
72
2.94
3
3
0.00
236

--- Página 253 ---
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Risk management must be embedded
institutionally
32.0%
40.0%
28.0%
0.0%
0.0%
25
4.04
4
4
0.00
Banks in general used to rely heavily on
rating agencies
28.0%
48.0%
20.0%
4.0%
0.0%
25
4.00
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks are more resilient to
economic shocks than their
conventional peers
40.0%
32.0%
8.0%
20.0%
0.0%
25
3.92
4
5
0.01
The recent crisis would not have
happened under a true Islamic banking
system
20.0%
56.0%
16.0%
8.0%
0.0%
25
3.88
4
4
0.00
Consolidation is needed among smaller
Islamic banks
28.0%
36.0%
32.0%
4.0%
0.0%
25
3.88
4
4
0.01
Islamic banks will emerge stronger
from the current crisis
24.0%
32.0
36.0%
8.0%
0.0%
25
3.72
4
3
0.02
Islamic finance can solve the global
crisis
16.0%
40.0%
32.0%
12.0%
0.0%
25
3.60
4
4
0.01
Islamic banks rely less on rating
agencies than conventional banks
12.0%
20.0%
24.0%
36.0%
8.0%
25
2.92
3
2
0.20
Islamic finance industry should develop
its own rating agencies
20.0%
12.0%
24.0%
28.0%
16.0%
25
2.92
3
2
0.74
(continued)
237

--- Página 254 ---
TABLE 7.16
(Continued)
Non-Islamic Bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries, conventional banks and others)
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Risk management must be embedded
institutionally
57.4%
25.5%
17.0%
0.0%
0.0%
47
4.40
5
5
0.00
Consolidation is needed among smaller
Islamic banks
51.1%
21.3%
25.5%
2.1%
0.0%
47
4.21
5
5
0.00
The recent crisis would not have
happened under a true Islamic banking
system
27.7%
34.0%
17.0%
12.8%
8.5%
47
3.60
4
4
0.03
Banks in general used to rely heavily on
rating agencies
25.5%
21.3%
42.6%
6.4%
4.3%
47
3.57
3
3
0.00
Islamic banks will emerge stronger
from the current crisis
10.6%
59.6%
10.6%
10.6%
8.5%
47
3.53
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks rely less on rating
agencies than conventional banks
6.4%
27.7%
53.2%
12.8%
0.0%
47
3.28
3
3
0.00
Islamic banks are more resilient to
economic shocks than their
conventional peers
17.0%
23.4%
36.2%
14.9%
8.5%
47
3.26
4
4
0.04
Islamic finance industry should develop
its own rating agencies
8.5%
25.5%
31.9%
21.3%
12.8%
47
2.96
3
3
0.08
Islamic finance can solve the global
crisis
6.4%
17.0%
40.4%
21.3%
14.9%
47
2.79
3
3
0.00
Notes: n = Number of responses; Scale: 1 = Strongly Disagree (SD), 2 = Disagree (D), 3 = Neutral (N), 4 = Agree (A), 5 = Strongly Agree (SA)
238

--- Página 255 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
239
must be properly understood and considered, these can be incorporated within the
existing rating frameworks.
The results also demonstrate that more than 69% of respondents support con-
solidation among smaller Islamic banks; the prevailing opinion is that there are far
too many Islamic banks to serve this growing market, but only a handful have the
size necessary to compete on a global stage. The same pattern could be traced on
breaking down the findings among the two groups.
Lastly, the findings in Table 7.16 and Figure 7.7 show that, on aggregate level,
most respondents agreed that Islamic banks will emerge stronger from the crisis
as they provide an ethical banking alternative (65.3%). A similar pattern exists
between the two groups, as 56% of Islamic bankers and 70.2% of non-Islamic
bankers support the view that Islamic banks will emerge stronger from the crisis.
Perceptions of Risk Management and Mitigation
The third part of the questionnaire aims to examine the risk management and hedg-
ing techniques used within individual Islamic banks. Risk mitigation has recently
come under the spotlight within Islamic banking in particular with the emergence
of a number of defaults in the Gulf region. Traditionally, the unique nature of risks
faced by Islamic banks, combined with the restrictions added by Shari’ah, makes
risk mitigation for Islamic banks a difficult and complex process. There are risks
that Islamic banks, similar to their conventional counterparts, can manage and con-
trol through appropriate risk policies, controls and traditional risk management
tools. However, there are other risks that banks cannot eliminate and that can only
be reduced or moderated by transferring or selling those risks in well-defined mar-
kets. The challenge is, however, that most of the conventional hedging tools do not
so far comply with the Shari’ah requirements, which limits the available tools of
risk management for Islamic banks.
Risk management and reporting
The first part of this section aims to depict
the findings related to risk management reporting used by the institutions of the
participants. Table 7.17 shows the different risk management reports that par-
ticipating banks produce and the frequency of publishing those reports, while
Table 7.18 shows the frequency distribution of the findings among Islamic and
conventional banks (including Islamic subsidiaries).
As depicted by Table 7.17, the most widely used reports in general are capital
requirement, liquidity risk and credit exposure reports, followed by industry con-
centration risk and profit rate risk reports. The commodity risk report is the least
used with 29% of respondents indicating it is not used. Some institutions produce
other specific reports not listed in the questionnaire like market risk reports (10%),
stress-testing reports (5%), counterparty concentration reports (7%) and collateral
management reports (3%).

--- Página 256 ---
240
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.17
Risk management reports – market practice
Report
Daily
Weekly
Monthly
Yearly
Never
Don’t
Know
Total
Responses
Capital requirement report
44%
24%
31%
—
—
2%
100%
Operational risk report
37%
17%
37%
2%
—
3%
97%
Profit rate risk report
56%
10%
29%
—
—
3%
98%
Foreign exchange risk
report
42%
20%
29%
—
—
3%
95%
Liquidity risk report
61%
25%
14%
—
—
—
100%
Commodity risk report
39%
5%
24%
0%
29%
3%
100%
Country risk report
54%
17%
29%
—
—
—
100%
Equity mark-to-market
report
51%
12%
22%
5%
5%
5%
100%
Classified accounts report
27%
3%
47%
17%
—
2%
97%
Industry concentration risk
report
42%
—
53%
2%
—
2%
98%
Credit exposure report
68%
3%
29%
—
—
—
100%
Large exposure report
58%
—
34%
—
3%
3%
98%
Other risk reports
Market risk
5%
—
5%
—
—
—
10%
Stress testing
0%
—
5%
—
—
—
5%
Counterparty
concentration
3%
—
3%
—
—
—
7%
Collateral management
3%
—
—
—
—
—
3%
In terms of frequency of producing these reports, the credit exposure report is
the most produced daily report, followed by the liquidity risk report and profit rate
risk report. The classified accounts report is the least produced daily report (27%)
as banks tend to produce it on a monthly basis. As the findings show, 31 institu-
tions indicate that they produce industry concentration risk report on a monthly
basis, followed by classified accounts report (47%) and operational risk report
(37% respondents). A small number of respondents indicated that they produce
some reports annually. Finally, few respondents indicated that they do not know
the frequency of reports’ production; this is because these respondents work in
non-risk management rules like traders and financial officers.
The analysis in Table 7.18 in a comparative manner shows that IFIs use the
same risk management techniques as conventional banks for managing the risks,
in particular liquidity, credit and market risks. Nevertheless, the spread and fre-
quency of utilising these techniques is lower among Islamic banks compared to
their conventional peers. Generally, IFIs still use less technically advanced risk

--- Página 257 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
241
TABLE 7.18
Risk management reports – Islamic versus conventional banks
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Report
Daily
Weekly
Monthly
Yearly
Never
Don’t
Know
Total
Responses
Capital requirement report
36%
24%
36%
—
—
4%
100%
Operational risk report
32%
8%
44%
4%
—
4%
92%
Profit rate risk report
48%
8%
36%
—
—
4%
96%
Foreign exchange risk
report
28%
24%
32%
—
—
8%
92%
Liquidity risk report
52%
36%
12%
—
—
—
100%
Commodity risk report
8%
—
20%
—
68%
4%
100%
Country risk report
28%
32%
40%
—
—
—
100%
Equity mark-to-market
report
16%
12%
36%
12%
12%
12%
100%
Classified accounts report
—
4%
48%
40%
—
—
96%
Industry concentration risk
report
16%
—
76%
4%
—
—
96%
Credit exposure report
48%
8%
44%
—
—
—
100%
Large exposure report
28%
—
56%
—
8%
8%
100%
Other risk reports
0%
Market risk
4%
—
4%
—
—
—
8%
Stress testing
—
—
8%
—
—
—
8%
Counterparty
concentration
4%
—
4%
—
—
—
8%
Collateral management
4%
—
—
—
—
—
4%
Conventional Banks (including Islamic subsidiaries)
Report
Daily
Weekly
Monthly
Yearly
Never
Don’t
Know
Total
Responses
Capital requirement report
50%
24%
26%
—
—
—
100%
Operational risk report
41%
24%
32%
—
—
3%
100%
Profit rate risk report
62%
12%
24%
—
—
3%
100%
Foreign exchange risk
report
53%
18%
26%
—
—
—
97%
Liquidity risk report
68%
18%
15%
—
—
—
100%
Commodity risk report
62%
9%
26%
—
—
3%
100%
Country risk report
74%
6%
21%
—
—
—
100%
Equity mark-to-market
report
76%
12%
12%
—
—
—
100%
(continued)

--- Página 258 ---
242
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.18
(Continued)
Report
Daily
Weekly
Monthly
Yearly
Never
Don’t
Know
Total
Responses
Classified accounts report
47%
3%
47%
—
—
—
97%
Industry concentration risk
report
62%
0%
35%
—
—
3%
100%
Credit exposure report
82%
0%
18%
—
—
—
100%
Large exposure report
79%
0%
18%
—
—
—
97%
Other risk reports
Market risk
6%
—
6%
—
—
—
12%
Stress testing
—
3%
—
—
—
3%
Counterparty
concentration
3%
—
3%
—
—
—
6%
Collateral management
3%
—
—
—
—
—
3%
measurement approaches as they are still in the emerging phase and do not have
sufficient resources and systems to use more technically advanced techniques. The
most widely used report among IFIs on a daily basis is liquidity risk report, fol-
lowed by credit exposure report and profit rate risk report. Commodity risk and
equity mark-to-market reports are the least used by IFIs in this survey.
Risk measurement
In addition to risk management reports, financial institu-
tions use various techniques to measure and analyse risks. Table 7.19 exhibits
different techniques used to measure and assess risks. There may be a variety of
formats in which these techniques can be used, ranging from simple analysis to
sophisticated models. The most common technique used by IFIs as indicated by
respondents is maturity matching analysis (88%), followed by reliance on external
ratings provided by rating agencies (84%), internal based rating and gap analysis
(76% each). Only 56% indicated they use Value at Risk (VaR) models, while sim-
ulation techniques are used by just six IFIs in the sample to assess different risks.
Comparing these figures to the responses by conventional bankers emphasises
the fact that risk management techniques in Islamic banking are not as sophisti-
cated as in the conventional banking world. The most common technique used by
conventional banks is external ratings provided by rating agencies (94.1%), fol-
lowed by maturity matching analysis (91.2%), internal based rating (88.2%) and
duration analysis (85.3%).
Moreover, the results for this question confirm those obtained by Question 11
as reported in the preceding section. As discussed in the section ‘Additional risk
issues facing IFIs’ in Chapter 8, more than 65% of respondents either ‘Agree’ or
‘Strongly Agree’ that risk management for IFIs is more challenging as compared
to the conventional banks. In addition, around 57% of respondents believe that risk
management for IFIs should not use the same tools as conventional banks.

--- Página 259 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
243
TABLE 7.19
Risk measurement techniques
(a)
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Conventional Banks
Risk Management
Technique
Total
Responses
Percentage
Total
Responses Percentage
Internal based ratings
19
76.0%
30
88.2%
Credit ratings by rating
agencies
21
84.0%
32
94.1%
Gap analysis
19
76.0%
28
82.4%
Duration analysis
17
68.0%
29
85.3%
Maturity matching analysis
22
88.0%
31
91.2%
Earnings at risk
11
44.0%
27
79.4%
Value at risk
14
56.0%
23
67.6%
Stress testing
15
60.0%
22
64.7%
Simulation techniques
6
24.0%
16
47.1%
Risk Adjusted Rate of Return
on Capital (RAROC)
8
32.0%
26
76.5%
Others
(b)
Ranking
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Conventional Banks
1
Maturity matching analysis
Credit ratings by rating agencies
2
Credit ratings by rating agencies
Maturity matching analysis
3
Internal based ratings
Internal based ratings
4
Gap analysis
Duration analysis
5
Duration analysis
Gap analysis
6
Stress testing
Earnings at risk
7
Value at risk
RAROC
8
Earnings at risk
Value at risk
9
RAROC
Stress testing
10
Simulation techniques
Simulation techniques
Notes: a) Question 18 is applicable only to respondents in the banking field, whether Islamic or con-
ventional; b) Conventional banks include Islamic subsidiaries

--- Página 260 ---
244
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Risk mitigation
A comparative analysis was conducted on risk mitigation
between Islamic and conventional banks. As can be seen in Figure 7.8, 72.2% of
respondents believe that risk mitigation techniques in Islamic banking are less
advanced than conventional banking. Table 7.20 provides detailed analysis of the
findings.
The results depicted in Table 7.20 can be summarised as follows:
(i) The majority of respondents (72.2%) believe that risk mitigation in Islamic
banking is less advanced than conventional banking. The main responses
came from fully fledged Islamic banks in the GCC (12.5%), followed by con-
ventional banks in Other Middle East (9.7%) and Islamic subsidiaries in the
GCC (6.9%).
(ii) 15.3% of the respondents indicated that they ‘Don’t know’ whether risk miti-
gation techniques in Islamic banking are more or less advanced than those
used is conventional banking. Within this category, conventional banks in
Europe, conventional banks in the GCC, and Islamic subsidiaries in Europe
had the main responses with 2.8% of total responses each.
(iii) 12.5% of respondents believe that risk mitigation techniques are similar in
Islamic and conventional banking. The main responses in this category came
from Europe (4.2%), followed by Americas, GCC and Southeast Asia with
1.4% each;
(iv) No respondents believe that risk mitigation techniques are more advanced in
Islamic banking than in conventional banking.
Don’t know
1%
1%3% 3% 6%
32%
13%
19%
8%
4%
4%
6%
More advanced
Similar
Less advanced
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
Fully Fledged Islamic Bank
Conventional Bank with Islamic activities/Windows
Conventional Bank
Others
FIGURE 7.8
Risk mitigation in Islamic banking versus conventional banking

--- Página 261 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
245
TABLE 7.20
Risk mitigation in Islamic banking
Region
Fully
Fledged
Islamic
Bank
Conven-
tional
Bank
Conventional
Bank with
Islamic
Activities
Others
Total
Don’t know
Europe
0.0%
2.8%
2.8%
1.4%
6.9%
GCC
0.0%
2.8%
1.4%
1.4%
5.6%
Other Middle East
1.4%
0.0%
0.0%
1.4%
2.8%
Less advanced
Americas
0.0%
1.4%
0.0%
1.4%
2.8%
Europe
6.9%
6.9%
5.6%
1.4%
20.8%
GCC
12.5%
1.4%
6.9%
1.4%
22.2%
Other
2.8%
0.0%
0.0%
1.4%
4.2%
Other Middle East
5.6%
9.7%
0.0%
1.4%
16.7%
Southeast Asia
4.2%
0.0%
0.0%
1.4%
5.6%
Similar
Americas
0.0%
1.4%
0.0%
1.4%
2.8%
Europe
0.0%
1.4%
1.4%
1.4%
4.2%
GCC
0.0%
0.0%
1.4%
1.4%
2.8%
Southeast Asia
1.4%
0.0%
0.0%
1.4%
2.8%
Total
34.7%
27.8%
19.4%
18.1%
100%
In searching for risk and risk management attitudes in Islamic banks, the par-
ticipants were also asked to express their opinions on risk mitigation techniques.
These results obtained from Question 19 were confirmed by the poor responses for
Question 20 about the techniques IFIs use to mitigate their risks as summarised in
Table 7.21.
This question is only applicable to fully fledged Islamic banks and Islamic
subsidiaries of conventional banks as the listed risk mitigation techniques are all
Shari’ah-compliant. As summarised in Table 7.21, collateral arrangements is the
most commonly used technique (92.3%), followed by Islamic currency forwards
(82.1%) and guarantees (76.9%). Dual currency murabahah represented under
‘Others’ is the least used risk mitigation techniques at 2.6% of responses.
The reasons for the lack of usage of Shari’ah-compliant risk mitigation
techniques may be because those techniques are subject to different interpretation
by Shari’ah scholars. Other reasons may include that, as previously indicated in
Table 7.8, salam and istisna’a contracts are not widely used in IFIs. As explained
in Chapter 3, there have been substantial efforts in developing Shari’ah-compliant

--- Página 262 ---
246
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.21
Risk mitigation techniques
Risk Mitigation Technique
Total Responses
Percentage of Total Sample
On-balance sheet netting
25
64.1%
Collateral arrangements
36
92.3%
Islamic options
10
25.6%
Islamic swaps
14
35.9%
Guarantees
30
76.9%
Islamic currency forwards
32
82.1%
Parallel contracts
12
30.8%
Other (please specify)
1
2.6%
Notes: Question 20 is applicable only to Islamic banks and conventional banks with Islamic activities.
Total sample for this question = 39 respondents
hedging instruments; however, much of this progress remains localised with
limited scope for cross-border application and further work is still needed.
Evaluating the Practice of Islamic Banking
This last section aims to analyse the opinions and the evaluation of the partici-
pants on the practice of Islamic banking. One of the main statements considered
in this section is the proposition that Islamic banking has been diverting from its
roots by mimicking conventional banks. In doing so, Question 21, a closed ques-
tion, provided four statements, and respondents were requested to express their
preference in terms of how strongly they agree or disagree with each statement.
The frequency results for the entire sample are summarised by Figure 7.9, while
Table 7.22 breaks down the findings between Islamic bankers and non-Islamic
bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries, conventional banks and others) and ranks
the importance of statements according to their mean values.
As can be seen from the findings depicted in Table 7.22 and Figure 7.9, on
both aggregate and individual levels, the majority of respondents either ‘Strongly
Agree’ or ‘Agree’ with the four statements. Although Islamic finance provides an
ethical banking alternative, IFIs need to reform before they can exploit the eth-
ical foundation in the Islamic banking model. The responses of Islamic bankers
and non-Islamic bankers were close, with the former’s responses being closer to
‘SA’ than the latter. These findings are supported by the significant results of the
Chi-Square test (p <1%). However, the mean rankings for the responses of Islamic
bankers are higher than those of non-Islamic bankers across all statements, reflect-
ing higher risk perceptions.

--- Página 263 ---
TABLE 7.22
Breakdown of perceptions about current practices in Islamic banking
Total Sample
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
There is difference between the current practice and
principles of Islamic banking
33.3%
33.3%
31.9%
1.4%
0.0%
72
3.99
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks need to reform to be successful
31.9%
29.2%
34.7%
4.2%
0.0%
72
3.89
4
3
0.00
Islamic banks have been mimicking conventional
models
25.0%
40.3%
27.8%
6.9%
0.0%
72
3.83
4
5
0.00
Islamic finance provides an ethical banking alternative
27.8%
27.8%
41.7%
2.8%
0.0%
72
3.81
4
3
0.00
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
There is difference between the current practice and
principles of Islamic banking
44.0%
32.0%
20.0%
4.0%
0.0%
25
4.16
4
4
0.01
Islamic finance provides an ethical banking alternative
44.0%
20.0%
36.0%
0.0%
0.0%
25
4.08
4
5
0.00
Islamic banks need to reform to be successful
28.0%
40.0%
28.0%
4.0%
0.0%
25
3.92
4
4
0.01
Islamic banks have been mimicking conventional
models
28.0%
44.0%
16.0%
12.0%
0.0%
25
3.88
4
5
0.00
Non-Islamic Bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries, conventional banks and others)
Statement
SA
A
N
D
SD
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
There is difference between the current practice and
principles of Islamic banking
27.7%
34.0%
38.3%
0.0%
0.0%
47
3.89
4
4
0.00
Islamic banks need to reform to be successful
34.0%
23.4%
38.3%
4.3%
0.0%
47
3.87
4
3
0.00
Islamic banks have been mimicking conventional
models
23.4%
38.3%
34.0%
4.3%
0.0%
47
3.81
4
3
0.00
Islamic finance provides an ethical banking alternative
19.1%
31.9%
44.7%
4.3%
0.0%
47
3.66
4
3
0.00
Notes: n = Number of responses; Scale: 1 = Strongly Disagree (SD), 2 = Disagree (D), 3 = Neutral (N), 4 = Agree (A), 5 = Strongly Agree (SA)
247

--- Página 264 ---
248
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Strongly Agree
31.9%
33.3%
27.8%
25.0%
40.3%
27.8%
6.9%
27.8%
41.7%
2.8%
33.3%
31.9%
1.4%
29.2%
34.7%
4.2%
Islamic banks need to reform to be successful
There is a difference between the current
practice and principles of Islamic banking
Islamic finance provides an ethical
banking alternative
Islamic banks have been mimicking
conventional models
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly Disagree
FIGURE 7.9
Frequency distribution for Question 21: current practices in Islamic
banking
The Future of Islamic Banking
The last section of the questionnaire includes a forward-looking question that
explores different strategies IFIs should follow in order to prepare for the future.
The participants were provided a number of statements and asked to express their
opinions. The results related to the growth strategies for IFIs are presented in
Table 7.23.
Table 7.23 reveals that both Islamic and non-Islamic bankers (including
Islamic subsidiaries, conventional banks and others) consider improved risk man-
agement and mitigation practices among the top priorities IFIs should focus on
in their development plans. While Islamic bankers ranked ‘Enhanced morality –
back to roots’ second (mean = 5.96), non-Islamic bankers ranked it in fourth
place (mean = 5.60). ‘Diversification’ was highly ranked by both groups,
while mergers and acquisitions, and organic growth in home market received
lower ranking. Non-Islamic bankers ranked ‘Standardisation’ higher than
Islamic bankers.
These findings are supported by the significant results of the Chi-Square test
for most strategies. In addition, Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient shows
that at the 5% significance level the rankings of the two groups are correlated (ρ=
0.9405>0.643) as depicted in Table 7.24.

--- Página 265 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
249
TABLE 7.23
Growth strategies for IFIs
Total Sample
Strategy
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Improved risk management
72
6.75
2
1
0.0
Better risk mitigation
72
6.33
2
2
0.0
Enhanced morality – back to roots
72
5.72
3
5
0.0
Diversification – reduce concentration
72
5.24
3
3
0.0
Innovation
72
3.26
6
8
0.0
Standardisation
72
3.14
7
7
0.0
Mergers and acquisitions
72
3.08
6
6
0.0
Organic growth in home market
72
2.49
7
8
0.0
Fully Fledged Islamic Banks
Strategy
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Improved risk management
25
6.64
2
1
0.0
Enhanced morality – back to roots
25
5.96
3
1
0.1
Better risk mitigation
25
5.88
3
4
0.0
Diversification – reduce concentration
25
4.44
4
8
1.0
Innovation
25
3.72
5
6
0.3
Mergers and acquisitions
25
3.32
6
6
0.1
Organic growth in home market
25
3.16
7
8
0.1
Standardisation
25
2.88
7
7
0.0
Non-Islamic Bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries, conventional banks
and others)
Strategy
n
Mean
Median
Mode
Chi-Square
Improved risk management
47
6.81
2
1
0.0
Better risk mitigation
47
6.57
2
2
0.0
Diversification – reduce concentration
47
5.66
3
3
0.0
Enhanced morality – Back to roots
47
5.60
4
5
0.0
Standardisation
47
3.28
6
8
0.0
Innovation
47
3.02
6
8
0.0
Mergers and acquisitions
47
2.96
6
6
0.0
Organic growth in home market
47
2.13
7
8
0.0

--- Página 266 ---
250
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 7.24
Correlation between perceptions of Islamic and conventional banks
about growth strategies for IFIs
Islamic
Banks
Median
Conventional
Banks
Median
Difference
(Difference)2
Improved risk management
2
2
0
0
Enhanced morality – back to roots
3
4
1
1
Mergers and acquisitions
6
6
0
0
Organic growth in home market
7
7
0
0
Better risk mitigation
3
2
−1
1
Innovation
5
6
1
1
Diversification – reduce
concentration
4
3
−1
1
Standardisation
7
6
−1
1
Spearman’s Rank Correlation
Coefficient
0.94048
CONCLUSION
This chapter is the first empirical analysis chapter of the quantitative data
assembled through survey questionnaire where mainly descriptive statistics were
applied to the primary data. Frequency distribution is among the descriptive
statistics used, in addition to Spearman’s Rank Correlation Coefficient test
and Chi-Square test. The analyses produced results on different aspects of risk
management in Islamic banking, which are summarised and explained in the
context of the research objectives.
The findings in this chapter show that, although IFIs face additional risks to
those faced by conventional financial institutions, both Islamic and conventional
bankers have similar perceptions about risk management in Islamic banking.
Liquidity, ALM and concentration risk were among the top risks identified by
both groups. Moreover, profit-sharing modes of financing and product-deferred
sales are perceived to be more risky than murabahah, wakalah and ijarah. This
explains why IFIs shy away from such instruments due to their lack of appetite
for risky assets, which in turn is due to IFIs trying to emulate the conventional
model. The manipulation of the contracts by Islamic finance practitioners,
in order to mimic conventional products, made the risk perception of equity
and risk-sharing contracts, for instance wakalah, similar to risk perception of
fixed-income contracts like murabahah. This manipulation caused the contracts
to behave differently and created a gap in risk perceptions.
The findings also indicate that, although IFIs are doing comparatively well
in terms of their general risk management and reporting, they are still perceived

--- Página 267 ---
Proﬁling Perspectives of Risk Dimensions in Islamic Finance
251
as using less advanced risk management approaches. Shari’ah-compatible risk
mitigation techniques are also not widely used by IFIs. Developing Shari’ah-
compliant risk mitigation and hedging tools, in addition to improving risk man-
agement and reporting practices, represents a serious challenge to Islamic banking
in order to lift itself to the next level. Most IFIs use Basel II capital adequacy stan-
dards, with greater use of basic and standardised approaches rather than advanced
models. This is due to the relative simplicity of their capital requirements. The
majority of respondents perceived that Basel II could be applied to IFIs, but with
a few amendments.
It is interesting to note that both Islamic and non-Islamic bankers share the
view that, although IFIs have shown resilience, they are not immune from eco-
nomic shocks. Broadly speaking, Islamic banking had a relatively ‘mild crisis’ in
that it suffered less damage as a result of the global economic and financial turmoil
of the past few years than conventional banking.
Empirical evidence shows that Islamic banking is expected to emerge stronger
from the crisis, provided some conditions are met, such as: ‘further innovation’,
‘enhanced transparency’, ‘more robust risk management architecture and culture’
and above all ‘enhanced Shari’ah-compliance’.
After providing some descriptive analysis of the general characteristics of the
sample, and examining the research questions and hypotheses, the findings of this
chapter will be further analysed by the inferential statistical analysis in Chapter 8,
which studies the attitudes of the respondents by providing a comparative analysis
between several identified groups or respondents’ categories.

--- Página 269 ---
CHAPTER8
Analysing Perceptions of Risk
and Risk Management
Dimensions and Issues
Inferential Statistical Analysis
T
his chapter is a continuation of Chapter 7 in analysing the quantitative data
represented by the survey questionnaire. In this chapter inferential statistics are
employed for exploring and analysing the opinions and attitudes of the respondents
by providing a comparative analysis between several identified groups or respon-
dent categories. In addition, the chapter considers some determinants and factors
which contribute to the perception and knowledge of the respondents concerning
risk management in Islamic banking.
As mentioned earlier in the research methodology chapter, the analysis in the
present chapter employs several inferential statistics tools for non-parametric data
analysis, ranging from cross-tabulation, the Friedman test, the Kruskall-Wallis
test, and the Chi-Square test to factor analysis and MANOVA multivariate analysis
of variance. Each of these statistical analyses will be used in the relevant section
of the chapter; a brief description of it will be presented prior to its application,
and the result will subsequently be interpreted. The chapter is divided into six
broad sections in line with the main parts of the questionnaire and in accordance
to the thematic division used in the interview analysis in Chapter 9. Each section is
developed to find satisfactory answers to one or more of the main research ques-
tions and their sub-questions as previously explained in the book. This chapter
concludes with a brief summary of the overall analysis and findings.
It should be noted that in order to avoid unnecessary detail, various analyses
were brought together under one table to consolidate the analysis in a concise
manner.
253

--- Página 270 ---
254
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
RISK PERCEPTION
It is highly expected that the respondents have different risk perceptions and
understanding of risk management in Islamic banking according to their back-
ground, region, position within the organisation, nature of financial institution
and other control variables. Therefore, this section analyses the respondents’
opinions according to the selected category of their profile.
Risk Issues in Islamic Banks
Overall risks faced by Islamic banks
The first factor to be examined is
the respondents’ perceptions about the severity of risk facing IFIs. Descriptive
statistics for Question 7, in Chapter 7, showed that Islamic and conventional
bankers share similar views about the top risks facing IFIs, unlike non-bankers
who adopted a more theoretical approach in their views. This section will
investigate further to examine the difference in perceptions among different
subgroups of respondents. For this purpose, the researcher has employed the
Kruskall-Wallis (K-W) test for region, country, respondent’s position, nature of
Financial Institution, nature of activities and accounting standards
The first control variable is ‘Region’. The results from the K-W test for the
entire research sample in Table 8.1 indicate that there is no statistically signifi-
cant difference among various regions in risk perception (p-value > 0.05) except
for corporate governance risk (p-value = 0.002), which is also evident from the
mean ranking. With a ‘relaxation’ of the confidence level to 0.06, we can accept
displaced commercial risk as significant as well.
Repeating the K-W test with ‘Region’ as the control variable for different
samples of data, in terms of the institutional setting of respondents, gives consis-
tent results, as illustrated by Table 8.2, which confirms that there is a difference
in risk perception of corporate governance risk among regions for fundamental
market reasons. In other words, there is a significant difference between regions
when institutional settings were also considered.
In addition, examining the mean rankings across different regions for corpo-
rate governance risk confirms the existence of a structural pattern. As apparent
from Table 8.3, the rankings do not change much when conducting K-W with
different samples identifying different institutional settings. The inclusion of con-
ventional banks and non-bankers in the test sample gives similar results. ‘Amer-
icas’ disappear when conventional banks are excluded from the test sample as
there were no respondents from IFIs in the ‘Americas’ in this research sample.
Also, the difference in values between the highest and the lowest mean rankings
is noticeable, which confirms that the distribution of corporate governance risk is
significantly different across regions.

--- Página 271 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
255
TABLE 8.1
K-W test results by region for Question 7 for entire research sample
Risk
Region
N
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Credit Risk
Americas
2
54
6.05
0.301
Europe
31
32.19
GCC
19
40.13
Other
2
22.25
Other Middle East
14
37.54
Southeast Asia
4
47.38
Total
72
Market Risk
Americas
2
63
10.568
0.061
Europe
30
41
GCC
19
29
Other
2
31.75
Other Middle East
14
36.04
Southeast Asia
4
20.25
Total
71
Operational Risk
Americas
2
38
4.496
0.48
Europe
31
35.58
GCC
19
41.68
Other
2
37.75
Other Middle East
14
28.39
Southeast Asia
4
46
Total
72
Equity Investment Risk
Americas
2
63
10.34
0.066
Europe
31
40.37
GCC
19
36.29
Other
2
48
Other Middle East
14
27
Southeast Asia
4
21.75
Total
72
Liquidity Risk
Americas
2
23
5.89
0.317
Europe
31
39.42
GCC
19
38.18
(continued)

--- Página 272 ---
256
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.1
(Continued)
Risk
Region
N
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Other
2
43.25
Other Middle East
14
26.79
Southeast Asia
4
43.25
Total
72
ALM Risk
Americas
2
24.5
3.482
0.626
Europe
31
39.53
GCC
19
37.39
Other
2
32.5
Other Middle East
14
29.57
Southeast Asia
4
41
Total
72
Displaced Commercial
Risk
Americas
2
36
11.002
0.051
Europe
29
28.64
GCC
19
45.79
Other
2
49.5
Other Middle East
13
34.04
Southeast Asia
4
25.25
Total
69
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance
Risk
Americas
2
42.5
4.49
0.481
Europe
31
39.11
GCC
19
36.18
Other
2
52.25
Other Middle East
14
27.93
Southeast Asia
4
36.88
Total
72
Concentration Risk
Americas
2
41
5.869
0.319
Europe
31
37.9
GCC
19
35.21
Other
2
51
Other Middle East
14
28.21
Southeast Asia
4
51.25
Total
72

--- Página 273 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
257
TABLE 8.1
(Continued)
Risk
Region
N
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Reputation Risk
Americas
2
33
3.644
0.602
Europe
31
34.68
GCC
19
35.53
Other
2
58.5
Other Middle East
14
36.64
Southeast Asia
4
45.5
Total
72
Fiduciary Risk
Americas
2
33
4.978
0.419
Europe
30
34.12
GCC
19
33.89
Other
2
13.75
Other Middle East
13
42.77
Southeast Asia
4
42
Total
70
Corporate Governance
Risk
Americas
2
57
19.086
0.002
Europe
31
45.98
GCC
19
29.21
Other
2
49.25
Other Middle East
14
26.07
Southeast Asia
4
17.5
Total
72
Legal Risk
Americas
2
26
2.067
0.84
Europe
31
38.19
GCC
19
34.58
Other
2
48.5
Other Middle East
14
33.93
Southeast Asia
4
40.75
Total
72

--- Página 274 ---
258
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.2
K-W test results by region for Question 7 for selected sample data
Fully Fledged Islamic
Banks, Conventional
Banks with Islamic
Activities and
Conventional Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with Islamic
Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Risk
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Credit Risk
6.037
0.303
2.65
0.618
2.384
0.666
Market Risk
8.4
0.136
2.962
0.564
1.331
0.856
Operational Risk
4.181
0.524
4.241
0.374
1.222
0.874
Equity Investment Risk
9.399
0.094
3.188
0.527
6.795
0.147
Liquidity Risk
5.266
0.384
0.096
0.999
0.938
0.919
ALM Risk
2.404
0.791
0.894
0.925
3.006
0.557
Displaced Commercial Risk
9.785
0.082
7.992
0.092
7.219
0.125
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance
Risk
4.609
0.465
1.387
0.846
6.283
0.179
Concentration Risk
7.318
0.198
2.751
0.6
4.077
0.396
Reputation Risk
4.388
0.495
2.795
0.593
2.223
0.695
Fiduciary Risk
5.846
0.322
3.128
0.537
9.058
0.06
Corporate Governance Risk
17.733
0.003
14.866
0.005
9.745
0.045
Legal Risk
2.656
0.753
2.904
0.574
3.398
0.494
There is a pattern regardless of the nature of the respondents included in the
sample, which implies that there are structural issues determined by the nature of
the market, which can be explained by fundamental market reasons. Although cor-
porate governance practices have material impacts on a bank’s risk profile, IFIs do
not generally have robust corporate governance frameworks in place particularly
in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), Middle East and Southeast Asia.
The same pattern could be identified, although to a lesser extent, when
examining concentration risk, one of the main risks identified by respondents, as
explained in the previous chapter. Table 8.4 confirms that there are fundamental
market reasons for the difference in mean ranking among different regions.
The mean ranking for the K-W test for the full sample ranks ‘Southeast Asia’
first (51.25), followed by ‘Other’ (51), then ‘Americas’ (41), while ‘Other
Middle East’ comes last with mean rank of 28.21. This ranking changes little
when conducting the K-W test for different samples using different institutional
settings, which confirms that for concentration risk there is a significant difference
between regions when institutional settings are also applied.

--- Página 275 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
259
TABLE 8.3
K-W test mean rankings for corporate governance risk for different
sample data
Corporate
Governance
Risk
Full Sample
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conven-
tional Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic
Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic
Activities
Fully
Fledged
Islamic
Banks
Region
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Americas
57
1st
47.75
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
45.98
3rd
39.78
3rd
28.75
1st
19
1st
GCC
29.21
4th
24.74
4th
17.34
3rd
13.61
3rd
Other
49.25
2nd
41.25
2nd
27.75
2nd
18.75
2nd
Other Middle East 26.07
5th
22.25
5th
12.1
4th
8.3
4th
Southeast Asia
17.5
6th
14.88
6th
10.38
5th
7.13
5th
TABLE 8.4
K-W test mean rankings for concentration risk for different sample data
Concentration
Risk
Full Sample
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conven-
tional Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic
Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic
Activities
Fully
Fledged
Islamic
Banks
Region
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Americas
41
3rd
31.75
4th
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
37.9
4th
34.83
3rd
21.38
3rd
16.8
2nd
GCC
35.21
5th
26.58
5th
17.59
5th
12.28
3rd
Other
51
2nd
38.75
2nd
24.75
2nd
13.5
5th
Other Middle East 28.21
6th
22.25
6th
17.8
4th
8.8
4th
Southeast Asia
51.25
1st
40.13
1st
25.88
1st
14.88
1st

--- Página 276 ---
260
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Furthermore, examining the mean rankings across different raw data for other
significant risks like credit and liquidity risks (as identified by the respondents in
Chapter 7) shows that rankings remain very similar between fully fledged Islamic
banks and fully fledged Islamic banks combined with Islamic subsidiaries of con-
ventional banks. However, adding conventional banks with no Islamic activities
to the sample changes the rankings slightly as summarised in Tables 8.5 and 8.6.
Under credit risk, for instance, when only fully fledged Islamic banks are included
in the sample, ‘Southeast Asia’ ranks first (15.63), followed by ‘Other Middle
East’ (13.2), ‘Europe’ (13.1), ‘GCC’ (13) and ‘Other’ (7). Also, the difference
in values between the mean rankings is minimal, reflecting the close perception
among different regions. When the institutional sample settings change to include
Islamic subsidiaries as well, this pattern of mean rankings remains very simi-
lar. However, changing the institutional sample settings to include conventional
banks changes the rankings and the gap between mean values becomes wider. Of
note is the existence of the same pattern when non-bankers are also included in
the sample. This shows that for credit risk there is a difference between regions
when conventional banks and other non-banking respondents are also considered.
Islamic and conventional bankers have different risk perceptions about credit risk
across various regions.
Table 8.6 shows that the same trend exists for liquidity risk. K-W test results
for different institutional samples indicate a similar pattern between samples of
fully fledged Islamic banks and fully fledged Islamic banks combined with Islamic
TABLE 8.5
K-W test mean rankings for credit risk for different sample data
Credit Risk
Full Sample
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conven-
tional Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic
Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic
Activities
Fully
Fledged
Islamic
Banks
Region
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Americas
54
1st
44.25
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
32.19
5th
25.45
5th
18.58
4th
13.1
3rd
GCC
40.13
3rd
32.61
3rd
20.72
3rd
13
4th
Other
22.25
6th
18
6th
11
5th
7
5th
Other Middle East 37.54
4th
30.17
4th
21
2nd
13.2
2nd
Southeast Asia
47.38
2nd
38.75
2nd
24.63
1st
15.63
1st

--- Página 277 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
261
TABLE 8.6
K-W test mean rankings for liquidity risk for different sample data
Liquidity Risk
Full Sample
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic
Activities and
Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic
Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic
Activities
Fully
Fledged
Islamic
Banks
Region
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
23
6th
17.75
6th
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
39.42
3rd
33.65
3rd
19.29
5th
12
5th
GCC
38.18
4th
30.58
4th
20.47
2nd
14.61
2nd
Other
43.25
2nd
34.75
2nd
20
3rd
12
3rd
Other Middle East
26.79
5th
22.67
5th
20.2
1st
12.3
1st
Southeast Asia
43.25
1st
34.75
1st
20
3rd
12
3rd
subsidiaries. Also, there is another similar pattern between the full sample and a
sample comprising fully fledged Islamic banks, Islamic subsidiaries and conven-
tional banks. This emphasises that Islamic and conventional bankers have different
risk perceptions about liquidity risk across various regions, while the perceptions
of Islamic subsidiaries is the same as that of fully fledged Islamic banks.
The findings indicate that there is an observed pattern which can be gener-
alised to most of the risk categories. This can be explained only by market realities.
The K-W test was conducted in a similar manner according to ‘country’ as
control variable; the results confirm those produced by the test conducted accord-
ing to ‘Region’.
In addition, an attempt was made to test the impacts of ‘respondent’s position’
and ‘accounting standards’ on risk perception; however, the results show that there
are no significant differences, as summarised in Table 8.7.
Finally, conducting the K-W test to examine the significance of perceived dif-
ferences among various risk groups for the entire research sample according to the
‘Nature of Financial Institution’ provided dispersed results. Table 8.8 shows that
liquidity,ALM,Shari’ah-non-compliance,concentration,reputationanddisplaced
commercial risks have significant p-values, while the remaining risks do not.
Further examination of the mean rankings for risks with significant p-value,
as summarised in Table 8.9, confirms the dispersion of data as no trend could
be established. In general, fully fledged Islamic banks and conventional banks

--- Página 278 ---
262
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.7
K-W test results by respondent’s position and accounting standards for
Question 7 for entire research sample
K-W According to
Respondent’s Position
K-W According to
Accounting Standards
Risk
Chi-
Square
df
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
df
Asymp.
Sig.
Credit Risk
11.817
14
0.621
1.098
4
0.778
Market Risk
20.115
14
0.127
1.616
4
0.656
Operational Risk
15.095
14
0.372
3.472
4
0.324
Equity Investment Risk
7.749
14
0.902
6.584
4
0.086
Liquidity Risk
13.051
14
0.522
7.051
4
0.07
ALM Risk
7.108
14
0.93
5.677
4
0.128
Displaced Commercial Risk
15.899
13
0.255
5.266
4
0.153
Shari’ah-Non-Compliance Risk
22.246
14
0.074
6.074
4
0.108
Concentration Risk
16.891
14
0.262
5.79
4
0.122
Reputation Risk
13.971
14
0.452
4.421
4
0.219
Fiduciary Risk
17.288
14
0.241
0.525
4
0.913
Corporate Governance Risk
18.487
14
0.186
5.596
4
0.133
Legal Risk
11.305
14
0.662
0.668
4
0.881
TABLE 8.8
K-W test results by nature of financial institution for
Question 7 for entire research sample
Risk
Chi-Square
df
Asymp. Sig.
Credit Risk
2.943
3
0.4
Market Risk
6.238
3
0.101
Operational Risk
3.237
3
0.357
Equity Investment Risk
3.599
3
0.308
Liquidity Risk
8.818
3
0.032
ALM Risk
9.381
3
0.025
Displaced Commercial Risk
13.528
3
0.004
Sharia’a Non-Compliance Risk
15.674
3
0.001
Concentration Risk
16.629
3
0.001
Reputation Risk
11.257
3
0.01
Fiduciary Risk
0.796
3
0.851
Corporate Governance Risk
1.511
3
0.68
Legal Risk
4.146
3
0.246

--- Página 279 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
263
TABLE 8.9
K-W test results by risk categories in relation to nature of financial
institution for Question 7 for entire research sample
Risk
Liquidity
Risk
ALM Risk
Displaced
Commercial
Risk
Shari’ah-
Non-
Compliance
Risk
Conc. Risk
Rep. Risk
Nature of FI
N
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Fully Fledged
Islamic Bank
25 44.64
1st
45.18
1st
31.98
2nd
46.88
1st
48.48
1st
44.7
1st
Islamic
Subsidiary
14 38.29
2nd
35.64
2nd
52
1st
25.46
4th
27.93
3rd
32.5
3rd
Conventional
Bank
20 28
4th
27.05
4th
29.13
4th
27.73
3rd
35.85
2nd
25.93
4th
Others
13 32
3rd
35.27
3rd
30.36
3rd
41.92
2nd
23.69
4th
41.31
2nd
Total
72
with Islamic activities have higher mean values than conventional banks alone
and ‘Others’, particularly for liquidity, Asset-Liability Management (ALM) and
displaced commercial risks. This trend, nonetheless, slightly changes for concen-
tration and reputation risks. Also of note is the proximity of mean value among
fully fledged Islamic banks and Islamic subsidiaries, which reflects the similar
perception of risks in Islamic banking. One possible reason for this is the simi-
lar knowledge and awareness of Islamic banking products and structures among
those professionals with hands-on experience in Islamic banking. This confirms
the findings of the section ‘Locating Risk Perception’ in Chapter 7.
Based on the above results, it can be concluded that three control variables
(region, country and nature of FI) contribute to some significant differences about
risk perception among respondents, but not for all risks. In addition, this can also
be supported by the fact that there is no significant difference in perception levels
between respondents from stand-alone Islamic banks and Islamic subsidiaries.
Initially it was expected that respondents from stand-alone Islamic banks would
have stronger perceptions compared to those from Islamic subsidiaries for two
reasons: firstly, stand-alone Islamic banks have been in existence for much longer
than Islamic subsidiaries, and, secondly, respondents from stand-alone Islamic
banks have the advantage of dealing with only Islamic banking products and
services, whereas Islamic subsidiaries still need to operate side-by-side with their
respective conventional counterpart in sharing the same operating platforms and
buildings. Nevertheless, the results have indicated otherwise. Differences could
be spotted between perceptions of conventional banks and stand-alone Islamic
banks, and more noticeably between the perceptions of bankers and non-bankers,
represented by ‘Others’. This could be because bankers, whether Islamic or
non-Islamic, have hands-on experience and better understanding of the Islamic

--- Página 280 ---
264
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
banking model and its risk architecture than non-bankers, who tend to be more
theoretical in their approach.
Islamic finance contracts
Questions 9 and 10 seek respondents’ views on
various Islamic modes of financing. Question 9 targets institutions that use Islamic
finance contracts only. Therefore, when conducting the K-W test for Question 9,
only stand-alone Islamic banks and Islamic subsidiaries were included in the data
analysis.
Intensity of use of different Islamic finance contracts Table 8.10 shows that
regardless of the respondent’s position or the nature of activities, banks use
Islamic finance contracts in similar patterns; all products had p-value > 0.05.
However, K-W test results according to ‘Region’ indicate that there is significant
difference in the use of mudarabah across different regions. Moreover, there is
significant difference in the use of wakala and salaam according to the nature
of financial institution.
The Friedman test is used to find a tendency for some variables to receive
higher ranks than others, i.e. to test whether the ranking is significant or not. The
results of the test reflect that ranking for this question is significant.
As can be seen in Table 8.11, ‘Other Middle East’ and ‘Southeast Asia’ use
mudarabah the most, with mean values of 32.5 and 27.13 respectively, while
‘Europe’ (17.71) and the ‘GCC’ (16.74) rank lower on the use of mudarabah as
financial institutions in these regions tend to rely more on murabahah, wakala and
ijarah. This should be explained by the economies of the regions in question, as
the lack of financial depth may necessitate greater use of equity financing.
TABLE 8.10
K-W test results for Question 9 for selected sample data
K-W According
to Region
K-W According
to Respondent’s
Position
K-W According
to Nature of FI
K-W According
to Nature of
Activities
Contract
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Murabahah
0.867
0.929
6.847
0.445
0.178
0.674
2.81
0.729
Wakala
1.273
0.866
6.472
0.486
6.875
0.009
6.946
0.225
Mudarabah
10.283
0.036
3.999
0.78
3.692
0.055
1.334
0.931
Ijarah
7.573
0.109
10.752
0.15
0.111
0.739
4.572
0.47
Musharakah
2.085
0.72
5.511
0.598
0.727
0.394
2.85
0.723
Istisna’a
2.07
0.723
3.622
0.822
2.064
0.151
8.831
0.116
Salaam
4.794
0.309
10.661
0.154
4.729
0.03
3.073
0.689
Friedman test
0.00

--- Página 281 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
265
TABLE 8.11
K-W test mean rankings for mudarabah
according to region
Region
N
Mean Rank
Mudarabah
Europe
12
17.71
GCC
16
16.47
Other
2
16.50
Other Middle East
5
32.50
Southeast Asia
4
27.13
Total
39
TABLE 8.12
K-W test mean rankings for wakala and salaam according to nature of
financial institution
Nature of Financial Institution
N
Mean Rank
Wakala
Fully Fledged Islamic Bank
25
17.08
Conventional Bank with Islamic Activities/ Windows
14
25.21
Total
39
Salaam
Fully Fledged Islamic Bank
25
22.86
Conventional Bank with Islamic Activities/ Windows
14
14.89
Total
39
As depicted by Table 8.12, Islamic subsidiaries (25.21) tend to use wakala to
a greater extent than do fully fledged Islamic banks (17.08), while the picture is
reversed for the use of salaam, where the disparity between mean values of the
two groups is wide
In addition, Question 9 was re-tested, excluding Islamic subsidiaries from the
sample. However, there were no significant differences between the use of differ-
ent contracts across the different control variables: region, respondent’s position,
nature of activities and accounting standards.
Risk perception for different Islamic finance contracts Unlike Question 9,
which targeted financial institutions using Islamic finance contracts, Question 10
seeks risk perceptions for these contracts. The feedback of all respondents is valu-
able; therefore the K-W test is conducted on the entire research sample.
As can be seen in Table 8.13, the results of the Friedman test reflect that rank-
ing for this question is significant, indicating that there is a significant difference
between risk perceptions of Islamic contracts.

--- Página 282 ---
266
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.13
K-W test results for Question 10 (risk seriousness) by region for entire
sample
Contract
Region
N
K-W Test
Mean Rank
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Murabahah
Americas
2
28.75
11.554
0.041
Europe
31
38.63
GCC
19
43.13
Other
2
54
Other Middle East
14
25.93
Southeast Asia
4
20.63
Total
72
Wakala
Americas
2
33
4.682
0.456
Europe
31
32.26
GCC
19
37.29
Other
2
33
Other Middle East
14
42.14
Southeast Asia
4
49.38
Total
72
Mudarabah
Americas
2
28.25
1.983
0.851
Europe
31
36.77
GCC
19
37
Other
2
28.25
Other Middle East
14
34.64
Southeast Asia
4
46.75
Total
72
Ijarah
Americas
2
33.25
4.637
0.462
Europe
31
35.85
GCC
19
34.08
Other
2
39.5
Other Middle East
13
43.88
Southeast Asia
4
20.25
Total
71
Musharakah
Americas
2
36.75
3.503
0.623
Europe
31
39.85
GCC
19
33.05

--- Página 283 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
267
TABLE 8.13
(Continued)
Contract
Region
N
K-W Test
Mean Rank
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Other
2
36.75
Other Middle East
14
37.64
Southeast Asia
4
22.63
Total
72
Istisna’a
Americas
2
46.5
6.413
0.268
Europe
29
37.4
GCC
19
33.21
Other
2
46.5
Other Middle East
14
27.5
Southeast Asia
4
49.63
Total
70
Salaam
Americas
2
59.75
4.569
0.471
Europe
31
35.13
GCC
19
35.53
Other
2
28.75
Other Middle East
13
33
Southeast Asia
4
46.5
Total
71
Friedman test
0.00
K-W test results according to ‘region’, as illustrated in Table 8.13, indicate
that murabahah is the only contract that reflects significant results across regions.
This is expected because murabahah is extensively used globally. Moreover, mean
rankings for murabahah, shown in Table 8.14, show that ‘Other’ regions, like
Turkey and Pakistan, have a higher ranking (54.0) than the ‘GCC’ (43.13) and
Europe (38.63), while the remaining regions follow. This can be attributed to two
main reasons. First, the European and GCC markets are more sophisticated in
their financial awareness of risk management, product structures and the use of
risk-hedging techniques than are Turkey and Pakistan, a fact which has a direct
impact on risk perception among those markets. Second, at the time of conducting
this questionnaire, European and GCC markets enjoyed stable political environ-
ments and ‘relatively’ less volatile business cycles compared to ‘Others’.
Repeating the K-W test with ‘Region’ as the control variable for different
institutional samples of data gives consistent results, as depicted by Table 8.15,

--- Página 284 ---
268
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.14
K-W test mean rankings for murabahah according to region
for entire research sample
Contract
Region
N
K-W Test
Mean Rank
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Murabahah
Americas
2
28.75
11.554
0.041
Europe
31
38.63
GCC
19
43.13
Other
2
54.0
Other Middle East
14
25.93
Southeast Asia
4
20.63
Total
72
TABLE 8.15
K-W test results by region for Question 10 for selected institutional data
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with Islamic
Activities and
Conventional Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Murabahah
14.146
0.015
13.497
0.009
9.788
0.044
Wakala
4.339
0.502
3.369
0.498
3.927
0.416
Mudarabah
2.043
0.843
1.896
0.755
2.255
0.689
Ijarah
6.546
0.257
2.152
0.708
4.189
0.381
Musharakah
2.647
0.754
3.601
0.463
4.015
0.404
Istisna’a
7.964
0.158
3.241
0.518
5.859
0.21
Salaam
5.065
0.408
1.954
0.744
1.937
0.747
which confirms that there is a difference in the risk perception of murabahah
among regions in comparing according to institutional nature for fundamental
market reasons.
In addition, examining the mean rankings across different regions for muraba-
hah confirms the existence of a structural pattern. As apparent from Table 8.16, the
rankings are similar when conducting the K-W with different raw data. The inclu-
sion of conventional banks and non-bankers in the test sample gave similar results.

--- Página 285 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
269
TABLE 8.16
K-W test mean rankings for murabahah according to region for selected
institutional data
Murabahah
Full Sample
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
and Conventional
Banks with
Islamic
Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Rank
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Rank
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Rank
K-W Test
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
28.75
4th
23
4th
N/A
N/A
Europe
38.63
3rd
34.48
2nd
23.83
2nd
17.1
2nd
GCC
43.13
2nd
34.42
3rd
22
3rd
14.78
3rd
Other
54
1st
43.5
1st
27
1st
19
1st
Other Middle East
25.93
5th
19.13
5th
10
4th
7.9
4th
Southeast Asia
20.63
6th
16
6th
9.5
5th
7.25
5th
The region ‘Americas’ disappears when conventional banks are excluded from the
test sample as there were no respondents from Islamic banks in the Americas in
this research sample.
As depicted by Table 8.16, there is a general pattern in terms of perception
of murabahah-related issues. Such regional and institutional differences can be
attributed to market conditions prevailing in each region.
Furthermore, using the entire research sample, attempts were made to test the
impact of the respondents’ positions, nature of financial institution, nature of activ-
ities and accounting standards on risk perception. However, the results, as depicted
in Table 8.17, show that there are no significant differences except for murabahah
contracts, which had significant risk perception according to accounting standards
(p = 0.028), and nature of financial institution (0.03).
Additional risk issues facing IFIs
Question 11 aimed at exploring the per-
ceptions of the participants in relation to a number of risks-related statements.
For this, the K-W test was employed to determine if there were any statistically
significant differences across the categories of respondent profiles.
Table 8.18 shows the K-W test results for the ‘Nature of financial institution’
variable. Statements 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 10 and 11 are statistically significant, which
reflects that there are significant differences in risk perception among respondents
according to the nature of their financial institution. It should be noted that insignif-
icant categories are eliminated and hence are not depicted in the table. Table 8.18
also breaks down the mean rankings for these statements.

--- Página 286 ---
270
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.17
K-W test results for Question 10 (perceived risk seriousness) for entire
sample data
K-W According
to Respondent’s
Position
K-W According
to Nature of
Financial
Institution
K-W According
to Accounting
Standards
K-W According
to Nature of
Activities
Contract
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig
Murabahah
19.85
0.14
8.75
0.03
10.90
0.028
4.08
0.67
Wakala
17.98
0.21
2.23
0.53
3.87
0.42
2.68
0.85
Mudarabah
14.02
0.45
0.27
0.97
2.82
0.59
4.36
0.63
Ijarah
13.99
0.45
7.07
0.07
6.13
0.19
9.06
0.17
Musharakah
19.02
0.16
1.50
0.68
3.18
0.53
2.34
0.89
Istisna’a
19.46
0.15
0.49
0.92
4.87
0.30
1.69
0.95
Salaam
18.39
0.19
0.97
0.81
3.52
0.48
1.69
0.95
TABLE 8.18
K-W test results for Question 11 for the full research sample according
to nature of financial institution
Statement
1
2
3
4
8
10
11
Chi-Square
9.73
28.631
7.969
36.833
12.224
23.692
15.743
Asymp. Sig.
0.021
0.00
0.047
0.00
0.007
0.00
0.001
Nature of Financial
Institution
N
Mean Rank
Fully Fledged Islamic
bank
25
28.68
21.92
37.06
55.5
38.9
23.86
42.92
Conventional Bank
with Islamic Activities
14
41.36
33
25
26.21
23.79
30.46
39.14
Conventional Bank
20
46.05
44.55
37.48
22.45
34.35
47.4
38.85
Others
13
31.62
55.92
46.31
32.65
48.88
50.54
17.69
Total
72
Note: Only statements with significant p-value are displayed in the table
Statements:
1. Risks for Islamic banks should be managed using the same techniques used
in conventional banking.
2. Islamic banking is more risky by nature than conventional banking.

--- Página 287 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
271
3. Risk management for Islamic banks is more challenging than it is for conven-
tional banks.
4. There is naturally inherent conservatism in the principles of Islamic finance.
5. In an Islamic bank, a low rate of return on deposits will lead to withdrawal of
funds.
6. Depositors would hold the bank responsible for a lower rate of return on their
deposits.
7. Variation among Shari’ah scholars’ opinions represents a major risk to
Islamic banking.
8. Shari’ah-non-compliance could severely damage the reputation of an Islamic
bank.
9. AAOIFI and IFSB standards should be made mandatory for Islamic banks.
10. Corporate governance is generally weak in Islamic banks.
11. Islamic banking in its current state is a safer option than conventional banking.
Studying the mean ranking for each statement does not reveal a certain pattern
governing the data; the data is widely dispersed with no clear trend of ranking
according to nature of financial institution.
Repeating the K-W test for the entire research sample using other control
variables (such as region, position of respondent, nature of activities and account-
ing standards) gives similar results; as seen in Table 8.19, which confirms that
there is a significant difference in risk perception among various groups. With a
‘relaxation’ of the significance level to 0.06, more statements can be considered
significant. An attempt was made to study the mean ranking for each statement
within each test; however, the results did not reveal a certain pattern, and the data
is widely dispersed with no clear ranking trend.
Factor analysis for Question 11 In order to provide further statistical robustness
to the analysis, factor analysis was conducted. Factor analysis seeks to discover
if the observed variables can be explained largely or entirely in terms of a much
smaller number of variables called ‘factors’.
As there are 11 statements for Question 11, all analysing the respondents’
perceptions of different risk issues in Islamic banking, the researcher felt that
reducing these statements into a more manageable number would enhance the
analysis and would tell more about how respondents perceived these issues. Hence,
factor analysis is deemed to be relevant in this respect as the main task of factor
analysis is to cluster the related group of variables through their common variance
(Pallant, 2007).
In order to test the factorability of the data in terms of sampling adequacy,
there are two statistical measures available in the SPSS software that can be used:
Bartlett’s test of sphericity and the Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO) test. As laid down
in Pallant (2007), for the factor analysis to be considered appropriate, the Bartlett’s

--- Página 288 ---
272
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.19
K-W test results for Question 11 for the full research sample according
to various control variables
Region
Position of
Respondent
Nature of
Activities
Accounting
Standards
Statement
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
1
9.695
0.084
18.272
0.195
7.736
0.258
9.534
0.049
2
29.87
0.00
32.308
0.004
31.623
0.00
22.755
0.00
3
11.308
0.046
23.068
0.059
9.59
0.143
5.236
0.264
4
24.749
0.00
24.06
0.045
18.209
0.006
15.894
0.003
5
9.5
0.091
18.734
0.175
5.504
0.481
6.408
0.171
6
10
0.075
18.471
0.186
1.598
0.953
0.937
0.919
7
19.217
0.002
24.05
0.045
14.798
0.022
7.077
0.132
8
4.523
0.477
18.66
0.178
12.829
0.046
8.222
0.084
9
16.245
0.006
16.724
0.271
11.293
0.08
8.495
0.075
10
33.479
0.00
25.222
0.032
25.108
0.00
17.862
0.001
11
14.644
0.012
22.839
0.063
23.755
0.001
21.018
0.00
test of sphericity value should be significant (p < 0.05), while for the KMO test,
the suggested minimum outcome must be at least 0.6 (KMO score ranging from
0 to 1). The KMO test’s benchmarks are as follows: for a KMO measure in the
0.90s the sampling is considered marvellous. If the outcome is in the 0.80s, then
the sampling is considered meritorious, if it is in 0.70s then the sample is middling,
if it is in the 0.60s then the sample is mediocre, if it is in 0.50s then the sample
is deemed miserable and lastly if it is below 0.50 then the sample is unacceptable
(Pallant, 2007).
Table 8.20 presents the results of KMO and also Bartlett’s test for this factor
analysis.
The outcome of the KMO measure for all 11 items combined, related to risk
perception, produced the value of 0.760, which is higher than 0.60, therefore the
TABLE 8.20
KMO and Bartlett’s test results for the 11 items
combined
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin Measure of Sampling Adequacy
0.760
Bartlett’s Test of Sphericity
Approx. Chi-Square
268.223
df
55
Sig.
0.000

--- Página 289 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
273
factor analysis is appropriate for this study. In addition, the significant p-value
as presented in the table of 0.000 is significantly lower than critical p-value of
0.05. Therefore, the identity matrix can be rejected. Based on the very encouraging
results from both tests, factor analysis may be performed.
The second step is to choose the most suitable method of data extraction.
As discussed in Chapter 6, the researcher selected principal component analysis
(PCA) as it is deemed the most suitable method for the data at hand. PCA involves
determining the patterns with the objective of studying the similarities and the
differences among the components of the data set.
After determining the factors, the next step in order to facilitate the interpre-
tation selection of rotation method is very important. In this regard, orthogonal
(uncorrelated) and oblique (correlated) approaches are the two main techniques
to rotation (Pallant, 2007). The results of the orthogonal rotation are easier
to interpret, describe and report (Field, 2009). There are various rotational
approaches in SPSS within both the orthogonal and oblique categories. Varimax,
Quartimax and Equamax are the typical orthogonal approaches of rotation,
whereas Direct Oblimin, Quartimin and Promax are the oblique methods.
Varimax is the most commonly used orthogonal technique in order to reduce
the number of variables whereas the Direct Oblimin technique is generally used
for the oblique method. The researcher opted for Varimax rotation with Kaiser
Normalization, as Table 8.21 suggests.
Table 8.21 presents the output of the number of factors that are retained
according to Kaiser’s criterion, in which all the eigenvalues are more than 1.0. In
this situation, there are three factors that will be retained, since the eigenvalues
are 3.732, 1.887 and 1.439 respectively. The screen plot, which is basically a
graph of the eigenvalues, shows that the 11 variables could be reduced to only
three as the graph slopes down steeply before becoming parallel to the horizontal
line. It is therefore clear from the plot that there is only a three-factor solution to
this question. Hence it was decided to retain the three factors.
According to Pallant (2007), the eigenvalue has to be greater than 1.0 to be
regarded as significant and to be used in determining the factors. The assump-
tion here is that the eigenvalues stand for the amount of total variation represented
by the factors and this means that an eigenvalue of 1.0 or above indicates a high
level of variation. Table 8.21 shows that there are three factors with an eigenvalue
greater than 1.0. This means that the original 11 items can be simply reduced to
three factors. The three-component solution explained 64.2% of the variance with
component 1 contributing 33.9%, component 2 contributing 17.1% and compo-
nent 3 contributing 13.1%. The explanatory power of the first factor is very high.
Table 8.22 further provides Rotated Component Matrix by distributing all
variables to the identified three components. The factors in each component have
some common characteristics and measure the same phenomenon, and therefore

--- Página 290 ---
274
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.21
Total variance explained for Question 11
Initial Eigenvalues
Extraction Sums
of Squared Loadings
Rotation Sums
of Squared Loadings
Compo-
nent
Total
% of
Vari-
ance
Cumu-
lative
%
Total
% of
Vari-
ance
Cumu-
lative
%
Total
% of
Vari-
ance
Cumu-
lative
%
1
3.732 33.926
33.926 3.732 33.926
33.926
3.103 28.214
28.214
2
1.887 17.151
51.076 1.887 17.151
51.076
2.013 18.296
46.509
3
1.439 13.078
64.155 1.439 13.078
64.155
1.941 17.646
64.155
4
0.982
8.929
73.084
5
0.675
6.136
79.219
6
0.571
5.190
84.410
7
0.443
4.023
88.433
8
0.370
3.366
91.799
9
0.349
3.171
94.970
10
0.299
2.722
97.692
11
0.254
2.308 100.000
Note: Extraction method: PCA
each component is named with a general description of the factors or variables
it includes. For instance, factors in component 1 deal with the respondents’ risk
perception. The factors in component 2 deal with Shari’ah principles and their
impact on the risk profile of an IFI, while the factors in component 3 deal with
the rate of return paid by an IFI and the effect of this on depositors’ behaviour and
perception of how safe the IFI is. Thus the results indicate that all these statements
can be explained with three main components. Figure 8.1 provides a screen plot
of the factor analysis results for Question 11.
After conducting factor analysis between groups, a MANOVA test was com-
puted in order to investigate if there is any significant difference between the three
component groups in relation to the same control variables. This will help to locate
the impact or significance of each control variable on the established distribution.
The outputs of the relevant tests are presented in Tables 8.23 to 8.25 in terms
of data conforming to the assumptions before the main MANOVA analysis. In this
sense, the sig. value of Box’s Test of Equality of Covariance Matrices should not be
lower than 0.001 in terms of not violating the assumption (Tabachnick and Fidell,
2006). In this example, the output of Box’s Test shows that there is no violation
of assumption of homogeneity of variances of variance-covariance matrices since
the sig. value of 0.248 is higher than the critical value of 0.001.

--- Página 291 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
275
TABLE 8.22
Rotated component matrixa for Question 11
Component
1 Risk
Perception
2 Shari’ah
Compliance
3 Rate
of Return
1 – Risks for Islamic banks should be
managed using same techniques used in
conventional banking
0.134
−0.770
−0.168
2 – Islamic banking is more risky by nature
than conventional banking
0.806
−0.237
0.061
3 – Risk management for Islamic banks is
more challenging than it is for
conventional banks
0.521
0.301
0.400
4 – There is naturally inherent
conservatism in the principles of Islamic
finance
−0.484
0.627
−0.289
5 – In an Islamic bank, a low rate of return
on deposits will lead to withdrawal of
funds
0.062
−0.012
0.882
6 – Depositors would hold the bank
responsible for a lower rate of return on
their deposits
−0.010
−0.059
0.886
7 – Variation among Shari’ah scholars’
opinions represents a major risk to Islamic
banking
0.584
−0.448
−0.006
8 – Shari’ah-non-compliance could
severely damage the reputation of an
Islamic bank
0.038
0.647
−0.098
9 – AAOIFI and IFSB standards should be
made mandatory on Islamic banks
−0.693
0.419
0.112
10 – Corporate governance is generally
weak in Islamic banks
0.790
−0.145
0.253
11 – Islamic banking in its current state is a
safer option than conventional banking
−0.693
−0.241
0.121
Notes: Extraction method: PCA.
Rotation method: Varimax with Kaiser Normalization.
a Rotation converged in five iterations

--- Página 292 ---
276
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Screen Plot
Component Number
Eigenvalue
4
3
2
1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
FIGURE 8.1
Screen plot for Question 11
Additionally, the output of the Levene’s Test of Equality of Error Variances is
explored. The results in the Sig. column show that sig. values of ‘Risk Perception’
(0.806), ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ (0.121) and ‘Rate of Return’ (0.112) are higher
than 0.05. Thus, there is no violation of the assumption of equality of variances
for these three factors.
After performing Box’s Test of Equality of Covariance Matrices and Levene’s
test, the set of multivariate tests was employed. Pallant (2007) states that multivari-
ate tests of significance demonstrate if there are any significant differences among
groups; the sig. value should be lower than 0.05 in order to find a statistically sig-
nificant result. There are several statistics which are also used in the SPSS such
as Pillai’s Trace, Wilks’ Lambda, Hotelling’s Trace and Roy’s Largest Root. In
this research Wilks’ Lambda result is taken into account since it is one of the most
commonly used statistics (Tabachnick and Fidell, 2006). The results of the Wilks’
Lambda show that there is a statistically significant difference between regions in
relation to the perceptions of the three components since the sig. value of 0.00 is
quite a bit lower than the critical level of 0.05.

--- Página 293 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
277
TABLE 8.23
Box’s Test of Equality of
Covariance Matricesa
Box’s M
27.466
F
1.209
df1
18
df2
544.584
Sig.
0.248
Notes: Tests the null hypothesis that the observed
covariance matrices of the dependent variables are
equal across groups.
a Design: Intercept + Region
TABLE 8.24
Levene’s Test of Equality of Error
Variancesa
F
df1
df2
Sig.
Risk Perception
0.458
5
66
0.806
Shari’ah Compliance
1.818
5
66
0.121
Rate of Return
1.867
5
66
0.112
Notes: Tests the null hypothesis that the error variance of the
dependent variable is equal across groups.
a Design: Intercept + Region
TABLE 8.25
Multivariate Tests
Effect
Value
F
Hypothesis
df
Error
df
Sig.
Partial
Eta
Squared
Intercept
Pillai’s Trace
0.995
4017.889a
3.000
64.000
0.000
0.995
Wilks’ Lambda
0.005
4017.889a
3.000
64.000
0.000
0.995
Hotelling’s Trace
188.339
4017.889a
3.000
64.000
0.000
0.995
Roy’s Largest Root
188.339
4017.889a
3.000
64.000
0.000
0.995
Region
Pillai’s Trace
0.568
3.083
15.000
198.000
0.000
0.189
Wilks’ Lambda
0.472
3.693
15.000
177.077
0.000
0.222
Hotelling’s Trace
1.036
4.330
15.000
188.000
0.000
0.257
Roy’s Largest Root
0.951
12.550b
5.000
66.000
0.000
0.487
Notes
a Exact statistic
b Computed using alpha = 0.05

--- Página 294 ---
278
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Since multivariate tests suggest that there is a statistically significant dif-
ference, a further investigation is conducted. This is in order to reveal if there
is a difference in terms of region on ‘Risk Perception’, ‘Shari’ah Compliance’
and ‘Rate of Return’, or only to some extent. Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
provide this information. Bonferroni adjustment, which is one of the most com-
monly employed methods, gives this information when the alpha level of 0.05 is
divided by the number of dependent variables (Pallant, 2007). In this example,
there are three dependent variables, therefore 0.05 is divided by three and the new
alpha level is 0.0167. As can be seen in the Tests of Between-Subjects Effects in
Table 8.26, the results indicate that the dependent variables ‘Risk Perception’ and
‘Shari’ah Compliance’ have significant values of 0.000, while ‘Rate of Return’
has a sig. value of 0.671, which is higher than the critical value of 0.0167 for
this example.
TABLE 8.26
Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
Source
Dependent Variable
Type I Sum
of Squares
df
Mean
Square F
Sig.
Partial
Eta
Squared
Corrected
Model
Risk Perception
18.683a
5
3.737
11.212 0.000
0.459
Shari’ah Compliance
14.314
5
2.863
6.937 0.000
0.344
Rate of Return
1.537
5
0.307
0.638 0.671
0.046
Intercept
Risk Perception
738.561
1 738.561 2216.046 0.000
0.971
Shari’ah Compliance
886.673
1 886.673 2148.655 0.000
0.970
Rate of Return
629.139
1 629.139 1305.938 0.000
0.952
Region
Risk Perception
18.683
5
3.737
11.212 0.000
0.459
Shari’ah Compliance
14.314
5
2.863
6.937 0.000
0.344
Rate of Return
1.537
5
0.307
0.638 0.671
0.046
Error
Risk Perception
21.996
66
0.333
Shari’ah Compliance
27.236
66
0.413
Rate of Return
31.796
66
0.482
Total
Risk Perception
779.240
72
Shari’ah Compliance
928.222
72
Rate of Return
662.472
72
Corrected
Total
Risk Perception
40.679
71
Shari’ah Compliance
41.549
71
Rate of Return
33.333
71
Notes
a R Squared = 0.459 (Adjusted R Squared = 0.418)

--- Página 295 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
279
Furthermore, Tests of Between-Subjects Effects provide the effect size. Partial
Eta Squared is used to determine the impact of independent variables on dependent
variables, and it signifies the percentage of the variance in the dependent variable
which is explained by the independent variable (Pallant, 2007). In this question,
the effect of ‘Region’ (independent variable) on ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah
Compliance’ (dependent variables) can be evaluated by the Partial Eta Squared,
which is depicted in the Tests of Between-Subjects Effects in Table 8.26. The
importance of this impact is explored using the effect size values. Cohen (2005)
categorises an effect size of 0.01 as a small effect and 0.06 as a medium effect
whereas 0.14 is a large effect.
The effect size values for this case are 0.459 and 0.344, which are deemed
large effect sizes using Cohen’s. These results signify that 45.9% and 34.4% of
the variances in ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ scores are explained
respectively by the region.
MANOVA test according to nature of financial institution for Question 11
After conducting a MANOVA test with ‘Region’ as the independent variable,
another MANOVA test was computed with ‘nature of financial institution’ as the
independent variable in order to investigate if there is any significant difference
between the three dependent factors identified by the factor analysis.
In this case, the output of Box’s Test, as shown in Table 8.27, shows that
there is no violation of the assumption of homogeneity of variances of variance-
covariance matrices since the sig. value of 0.080 is higher than the critical value
of 0.001.
Additionally, the output of the Levene’s Test of Equality of Error Variances is
explored in Table 8.28. The results in the Sig. column show that sig. values of ‘Risk
Perception’ (0.753), ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ (0.427) and ‘Rate of Return’ (0.077)
are higher than 0.05. Thus, there is no violation of the assumption of equality of
variances for these three factors.
TABLE 8.27
Box’s Test of
Equality of Covariance Matricesa
Box’s M
29.551
F
1.497
df1
18
df2
9866.884
Sig.
0.080
Notes: Tests the null hypothesis that the
observed covariance matrices of the depen-
dent variables are equal across groups.
a Design: Intercept + Nature Financial
Institution

--- Página 296 ---
280
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.28
Levene’s Test of Equality of Error Variancesa
F
df1
df2
Sig.
Risk Perception
0.400
3
68
0.753
Shari’ah Compliance
0.938
3
68
0.427
Rate of Return
2.386
3
68
0.077
Notes: Tests the null hypothesis that the error variance of the dependent
variable is equal across groups.
a Design: Intercept + Nature Financial Institution
TABLE 8.29
Multivariate testsc
Effect
Value
F
Hypothesis
df
Error
df
Sig.
Partial
Eta
Squared
Intercept
Pillai’s Trace
0.995 4340.694a
3.000
66.000 0.000
0.995
Wilks’ Lambda
0.005 4340.694a
3.000
66.000 0.000
0.995
Hotelling’s Trace
197.304 4340.694a
3.000
66.000 0.000
0.995
Roy’s Largest Root 197.304 4340.694a
3.000
66.000 0.000
0.995
Nature of FI Pillai’s Trace
0.621
5.921
9.000
204.000 0.000
0.207
Wilks’ Lambda
0.478
6.335
9.000
160.777 0.000
0.218
Hotelling’s Trace
0.890
6.396
9.000
194.000 0.000
0.229
Roy’s Largest Root
0.534
12.100b
3.000
68.000 0.000
0.348
Notes
a Exact statistic.
b The statistic is an upper bound on F that yields a lower bound on the significance level.
c Design: Intercept + Nature Financial Institution
The results of the Wilks’ Lambda in Table 8.29 show that there is a statis-
tically significant difference according to nature of financial institution since the
sig. value of 0.00 is quite a bit lower than the critical level of 0.05.
Since the multivariate test suggests that there is a statistically significant dif-
ference, a further investigation is conducted. Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
provide this information. In this case, there are three dependent variables, there-
fore 0.05 is divided by three and the new alpha level is 0.0167. As can be seen in
the Tests of Between-Subjects Effects in Table 8.30, the results indicate that the
dependent variables ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ have significant
values of 0.000, while ‘Rate of Return’ has a sig. value of 0.234, which is higher
than the critical value of 0.0167 for this example. Furthermore, the effect size val-
ues as evaluated by the Partial Eta Squared for this case are 0.301 and 0.336, which
are deemed large-effect sizes using Cohen’s. These results signify that 30.1% and

--- Página 297 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
281
TABLE 8.30
Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
Source
Dependent Variable
Type III
Sum of
Squares df
Mean
Square
F
Sig.
Partial
Eta
Squared
Corrected
Model
Risk Perception
12.240a 3
4.080
9.755 0.000
0.301
Shari’ah Compliance
13.952b 3
4.651
11.459 0.000
0.336
Rate of Return
2.014c 3
0.671
1.457 0.234
0.060
Intercept
Risk Perception
715.613
1 715.613 1711.036 0.000
0.962
Shari’ah Compliance
799.581
1 799.581 1970.166 0.000
0.967
Rate of Return
570.736
1 570.736 1239.172 0.000
0.948
Nature of FI
Risk Perception
12.240
3
4.080
9.755 0.000
0.301
Shari’ah Compliance
13.952
3
4.651
11.459 0.000
0.336
Rate of Return
2.014
3
0.671
1.457 0.234
0.060
Error
Risk Perception
28.440 68
0.418
Shari’ah Compliance
27.597 68
0.406
Rate of Return
31.319 68
0.461
Total
Risk Perception
779.240 72
Shari’ah Compliance
928.222 72
Rate of Return
662.472 72
Corrected
Total
Risk Perception
40.679 71
Shari’ah Compliance
41.549 71
Rate of Return
33.333 71
a R Squared = 0.301 (Adjusted R Squared = 0.270).
b R Squared = 0.336 (Adjusted R Squared = 0.306).
c R Squared = 0.060 (Adjusted R Squared = 0.019)
33.6% of the variances in ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ scores are
explained respectively by the nature of financial institution.
Conducting the MANOVA test according to ‘Region’ and ‘Nature of
Financial Institution’ as independent variables provided consistent results. It can
be concluded that ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ are significant
dependent variables and have strong explanatory power, while ‘Rate of Return’
does not follow the pattern.
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
This section addresses capital adequacy challenges facing IFIs. It tackles the con-
troversial issues regarding the applicability of the Basel II and Basel III Accords
to IFIs, and the appropriate capital requirement levels for Islamic banks.

--- Página 298 ---
282
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.31
K-W test results by region for Question 15 (capital adequacy) for entire
research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
Chi-Square
18.081
24.185
20.089
20.24
5.502
Asymp. Sig.
0.003
0.000
0.001
0.001
0.358
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Region
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
Americas
2
59.25
2
22
2
27.5
2
57
2
28
Europe
31
45.13
31
24.66
31
30.26
31
45.06
31
32.06
GCC
19
23.16
19
51.24
19
50.71
19
24.24
19
40.39
Other
2
18
2
48.5
2
59
2
28.75
2
28
Other Middle
East
14
34.54
14
42.86
14
33.29
14
32.39
14
39.93
Southeast Asia
4
37.75
4
37.25
4
21.88
4
36.38
4
48.88
Total
72
72
72
72
72
The results of the K-W test in Table 8.31 show that all statements are sta-
tistically significant (p-value < 0.05) except for Statement 5 (p-value = 0.358)
implying that regional differences in relation to capital adequacy are significant.
Statements as depicted in the following tables and their coding are:
1. Basel II standards should be equally applied to Islamic banks without modi-
fication.
2. IFSB standards on Capital Adequacy should be used by Islamic banks rather
than Basel II.
3. Basel II standards should be reviewed after failing to prevent the financial
crisis.
4. The proposed Basel III rules would be easily applicable to Islamic banks.
5. Stricter capital, leverage and liquidity rules, as proposed under Basel III, are
likely to prevent another financial crisis.
Conducting the K-W test with ‘Nature of Financial Institution’ as the control
variable for the entire research sample gives different results, as illustrated by
Table 8.32. All statements are statistically insignificant except Statement 5, which
shows different views between bankers (whether Islamic or conventional) and
non-bankers, which is also evident from the mean ranking. This implies that
the nature of financial institution is not a statistically determining factor; and
that the opinions of the respondents are rather similar.

--- Página 299 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
283
TABLE 8.32
K-W test results by nature of financial institution for Question 15
(capital adequacy) for entire research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
Chi-Square
5.611
5.127
5.781
4.07
9.79
Asymp. Sig.
0.132
0.163
0.123
0.254
0.02
Nature of
Financial
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Institution
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
Fully Fledged
Islamic bank
25
30.92
25
37.9
25
37.4
25
31.86
25
39.98
Conventional
Bank with
Islamic
Activities
14
33.93
14
45.71
14
46.14
14
34.57
14
40.75
Conventional
Bank
20
45
20
32.05
20
32
20
39.73
20
38.78
Others
13
36.92
13
30.73
13
31.31
13
42.54
13
21.73
Total
72
72
72
72
72
Furthermore, repeating the K-W test with ‘Nature of Activities’ and
‘Respondent’s Position’ as control variables for the entire research sample
gives results consistent with those of K-W according to ‘Nature of Financial
Institution’, as illustrated by Tables 8.33 and 8.34 respectively. For ‘Nature
of Activities’, statements are statistically insignificant except for Statements 1
and 3, while as depicted by Table 8.34 for ‘Respondent’s Position’, all statements
are statistically insignificant except Statement 5. This reflects the difference in
opinions among different groups regarding the newly developed Basel III capital
and liquidity standards and their applicability to Islamic banking.
The Credit Crisis and Islamic Banks
This section of the questionnaire seeks respondents’ views on different issues
relating to the recent global crisis. For this purpose, Question 16 of the survey
presented nine statements to respondents. This part applied to all the respondents,
which means replies from all institutional samples of data were obtained by
asking respondents to answer using a five-point Likert scale (ranking from
Strongly Agree = 5 to Strongly Disagree = 1). Table 8.35 employs the K-W test
to examine the significant difference among respondents’ perceptions according
to ‘Region’.

--- Página 300 ---
284
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.33
K-W test results by nature of activities for Question 15 for entire
research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
Chi-Square
8.467
12.532
11.053
13.98
14.255
Asymp. Sig.
0.206
0.051
0.087
0.03
0.027
Nature of
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Activities
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
Commercial
Banking
11
34.91
11
39.68
11
38.95
11
29.23
11
42.86
Integrated
Banking
9
38.67
9
37.5
9
39
9
40.61
9
36.33
Investment
Banking
11
44.09
11
23.86
11
24.23
11
48.32
11
37.91
Private Equity
House
1
67
1
11.5
1
27.5
1
44
1
43
Retail &
Commercial
Banking
17
37.35
17
39.79
17
38.35
17
33.26
17
45.71
Retail Banking
10
22.9
10
50.4
10
49.55
10
24.7
10
31
Other
13
36.92
13
30.73
13
31.31
13
42.54
13
21.73
Total
72
72
72
72
72
Statements tested in this section and their coding are as follows:
1. Islamic banks are more resilient to economic shocks than their conventional
peers.
2. The recent crisis would not have happened under a true Islamic banking
system.
3. Islamic finance could have solved the global crisis.
4. Risk management must be embedded institutionally.
5. Banks in general used to rely heavily on rating agencies.
6. Islamic banks rely less on rating agencies than conventional banks.
7. The Islamic finance industry should develop its own rating agencies.
8. Islamic banks will emerge stronger from the crisis.
9. Consolidation is needed among smaller Islamic banks.
The results in Table 8.35 show that most statements are statistically signif-
icant (p-value < 0.05). With a ‘relaxation’ of the confidence level to 0.06, we
can accept all statements except Statements 6 and 9. Mean rankings reveal that,

--- Página 301 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
285
TABLE 8.34
K-W test results by position of respondent for Question 15 for entire
research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
Chi-Square
12.056
12.503
16.546
19.49
29.835
Asymp. Sig.
0.602
0.566
0.281
0.147
0.008
Position of
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Respondent
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
N
Rank
Analyst
5
43
5
32.5
5
29.3
5
44
5
43
Senior Analyst
4
37.75
4
27.75
4
21.88
4
44
4
13
Auditor
2
42.25
2
42
2
16.25
2
57
2
13
CEO
5
36.9
5
34.3
5
29.3
5
37
5
34.7
CFO
2
9
2
64.5
2
59
2
13.5
2
13
Consultant
2
27.25
2
42
2
43.25
2
23.75
2
13
Director
6
39.17
6
22
6
29
6
48.33
6
31.92
General
Manager
10
37.8
10
36.6
10
37.85
10
33.85
10
47.7
Head of
Investment
Banking
1
3
1
64.5
1
59
1
3.5
1
13
Head of Risk
Management
11
33.27
11
37.95
11
36.91
11
39.91
11
33.64
Managing
Director
8
37.81
8
38.88
8
40.44
8
28.75
8
48.06
Risk Manager
12
41.63
12
35.17
12
38.75
12
34.33
12
41.92
Senior Trader
2
41
2
38
2
59
2
44
2
57.25
Shari’ah
Scholar
1
3
1
64.5
1
59
1
13.5
1
13
Solicitor
1
51.5
1
32.5
1
27.5
1
44
1
43
Total
72
72
72
72
72
although there is no clear pattern that could be traced, the ‘GCC’ and ‘Other’ cat-
egories are usually ranked at the top for most statements. This emphasises the fact
that respondents from these two regions are more aggressive than those from other
regions in their views about the credit crunch and Islamic finance. Thus the find-
ings indicate that there are statistically different and significant opinions among
the respondents coming from different regions.

--- Página 302 ---
286
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.35
K-W test results by region for Question 16 for entire research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Chi-Square
11.052 19.879 27.446 14.571 10.877 4.863 18.587 11.171 3.695
Asymp. Sig.
0.05
0.001
0.00
0.012
0.054 0.433
0.002
0.048 0.594
Region
Mean Rank
Americas
30.25
29
9
55
30.75 33
38
31
44.5
Europe
28.39
27.08
26.1
42.5
33.89 34.16 25.11
30.05 39.06
GCC
44.76
50.87
51.37
38.05
47.42 43.16 49.32
48.29 29.5
Other
52.5
41
56.5
17.25
52.75 51.25 43.5
31
32
Other Middle
East
38.86
41.93
35.43
26.71
29.29 33.57 41.89
38.04 38.93
Southeast Asia
47
23.75
54
17.25
24.88 27.63 40.75
30.63 39.63
Note: N for all statements = 72
In addition, attempts were made to test the impacts of ‘Nature of Financial
Institution’, ‘Nature of Activities’, ‘Accounting Standards’ and ‘Respondent’s
Position’ on the responses; the results are summarised in Tables 8.36 to 8.39.
With the exception of Statement 3 (p = 0.005), there is no statistically sig-
nificant difference among all other statements. Mean ranking for Statement 3, as
seen in Table 8.36, shows that fully fledged Islamic banks are far more aggres-
sive in their belief that Islamic finance could have solved the global crisis than
other categories (46.2), followed by Islamic subsidiaries (40.25), then by Others
TABLE 8.36
K-W test results by nature of financial institution for Question 16 for
entire research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Chi-Square
4.614 1.698 12.818 4.531 5.573 5.631 2.965 4.369 4.238
Asymp. Sig.
0.202 0.637
0.005 0.21
0.134 0.131 0.397 0.224 0.237
Region
Mean Rank
Fully Fledged Islamic
bank
41.6
38.46 46.2
30.44 42.02 31.48 35.64 37.3
31.54
Conventional Bank
with Islamic Activities
38.21 35.29 40.25 36.07 36.82 42.93 43.32 43.07 33.96
Conventional Bank
34.95 38.75 27.38 40.83 28.1
33.23 37.05 29.53 43.1
Others
27.23 30.58 27.85 41.96 38.46 44.27 29.96 38.62 38.62
Note: N for all statements = 72

--- Página 303 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
287
TABLE 8.37
K-W test results by nature of activities for Question 16 for entire
research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Chi-Square
12.156 8.402 11.446 12.029 4.862 15.608 10.263 6.527 2.581
Asymp. Sig.
0.059 0.21
0.076
0.061 0.562 0.016
0.114 0.367 0.859
Region
Mean Rank
Commercial Banking 41.36 41.59 46.73
36.86 37.41 31.32
39.86 34.27 35.77
Integrated Banking
38.94 32.61 27.61
45.5
24.22 35.89
34.61 29.11 39.39
Investment Banking
27.55 25.95 29.45
42.95 33.68 22.68
28.32 29.82 36.27
Private Equity House
7
39.5
34
55
42.5
1.5
19
18.5
12.5
Retail & Commercial
Banking
39.29 40.85 39.88
30.03 39.38 37.59
37.35 40.38 38.21
Retail Banking
49.05 46
46.75
22.95 41.6
49.5
52.3
45.4
31.7
Other
27.23 30.58 27.85
41.96 38.46 44.27
29.96 38.62 38.62
Note: N for all statements = 72
TABLE 8.38
K-W test results by accounting standards for Question 16 for entire
research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Chi-Square
6.86
7.494 11.839 8.564 11.496 6.621 10.72 5.72
4.252
Asymp. Sig.
0.143 0.112
0.019 0.073
0.022 0.157
0.03 0.221 0.373
Region
Mean Rank
AAOIFI standards
52.5
51.5
54.83
28.17
45.42
49.5
57
43.25 22.25
International &
AAOIFI standards
40.9
49.1
54.5
45.6
58.9
29.7
49.8
52.6
33.1
International
standards
36.79 33.74
34.33
38.32
34.61
34.32 33.12 32.76 39.08
Local accounting
standards
35.65 39.4
36
22.95
24.6
30.3
38.9
35.85 34.2
N/A
27.23 30.58
27.85
41.96
38.46
44.27 29.96 38.62 38.62
Note: N for all statements = 72
and Conventional Banks. This is consistent with the K-W test result according to
‘Region’ as the control variable (Table 8.35) because respondents from the ‘GCC’
and ‘Other’ regions in this research sample are mainly fully fledged Islamic banks
and Islamic subsidiaries.

--- Página 304 ---
288
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.39
K-W test results by respondent’s position for Question 16 for entire
research sample
Statement
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Chi-Square
17.068 19.453 19.773 13.82
23.564 14.194 23.054 15.677 17.272
Asymp. Sig.
0.253
0.148
0.137
0.463
0.052
0.435
0.059
0.333
0.242
Region
Mean Rank
Analyst
36.9
40.1
24
39.9
19
33
40.2
24.3
52
Senior Analyst
26.13
35
39.63
40.75
21.25
45.25
21.5
34.63 45.88
Auditor
30.25
51.5
14
55
63
33
47
25.75 57
CEO
32.1
33.3
39
39.9
46
24.1
18.5
26.4
38.1
CFO
63.5
63.5
56.5
40.75
52.75
39.75
68
55.25 32
Consultant
41.25
51.5
41.5
31.5
63
51.25
43.5
55.25 29.25
Director
21
20.83
15.67
42.42
30.33
41.17
18.42
35.17 33.83
General Manager
30
41.2
34.5
27.65
30.75
31.75
40.8
33.5
28.1
Head of
Investment
Banking
63.5
39.5
69
55
63
57.5
68
67
32
Head of Risk
Management
38.23
36.59
41.27
37.77
43.55
32.55
39.14
40.82 30.45
Managing
Director
46.94
45.5
41.5
25.44
28.94
49.81
40
43.31 34.06
Risk Manager
40
26.25
38.79
36.13
33.92
30.42
32.88
32.88 47.04
Senior Trader
30.25
29
34
55
42.5
33.75
47
37.5
22.25
Shari’ah Scholar
63.5
63.5
69
8
63
69.5
68
67
12.5
Solicitor
19
8.5
34
55
42.5
33
38
18.5
12.5
Note: N for all statements = 72
The same statements are further investigated in relation to the nature of activ-
ities. As depicted by Table 8.37, only Statement 6 is statistically significant. With
a relaxation of the confidence level to 0.06, one can also accept Statement 1. For
both Statements 1 and 6, ‘Retail Banking’ is the most aggressive category accord-
ing to mean rankings, and ‘Private Equity Houses’ is by far the least aggressive.
Other categories fall in between, although no particular trend can be established.
These results confirm the K-W test results according to ‘Region’ (Table 8.35), as
out of the 10 retail banks included in the research sample, five are located in the
‘GCC’ and one is located in ‘Other’. It should be noted that the sole Private Equity

--- Página 305 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
289
House in this research sample is also located in the ‘GCC’. Furthermore, results
from Table 8.37 are also consistent with the K-W test results according to ‘Nature
of Financial Institution’ (Table 8.36) because 8 out of the 10 retail banks included
in the research sample are fully fledged Islamic banks, and the other two are Islamic
subsidiaries. The one Private Equity House is also a fully fledged Islamic bank.
Table 8.38 shows that only Statements 3, 5 and 7 are statistically significant
according to accounting standards. Mean rankings reflect that for these three state-
ments, ‘AAOIFI’ and ‘International & AAOIFI standards’ are always top ranked,
followed by other criteria. These results confirm the K-W results for the previ-
ous control variables in Tables 8.35 to 8.37; therefore the results indicate that the
perceived views in relation to accounting standards are statistically significant for
these three statements.
The potential impact of the respondents’ positions on the same statements is
also investigated. The p-values in Table 8.39 show that there are no significant
differences according to respondent’s position. By relaxing the confidence level
to 0.06, one can also accept Statements 5 and 7. No pattern could be concluded by
studying the mean ranking. The only obvious conclusion is that Shari’ah scholars
ranked the highest mean and solicitors had the lowest mean values for most, but
not all, statements. This is expected because Shari’ah scholars tend to be more
conservative in their views about Islamic banking and Shari’ah compliance, while
solicitors usually focus more on legal structures rather than the Shari’ah side of
transactions.
Factor analysis for Question 16 (credit crisis and Islamic finance)
To
locate the perception of the participants regarding the credit crisis in relation to a
number of issues related to Islamic finance, they were provided with a number of
statements. The opinions are analysed through factor analysis.
As previously explained, factor analysis seeks to discover if the observed vari-
ables can be explained largely or entirely in terms of a much smaller number of
variables called the factors.
As there are nine statements for Question 16, analysing the respondents’ per-
ceptions toward Islamic banking and the global credit crisis, the researcher felt
that reducing these statements to a more manageable number would enhance the
analysis and tell more about how respondents perceived these issues. Hence, factor
analysis is deemed to be relevant in this respect as the main task of factor analysis
is to cluster the related group of variables through their common variance.
In order to test the factorability of the data in terms of sampling adequacy,
Table 8.40 presents the results of KMO and also Bartlett’s Test for this factor
analysis.
The outcome of the KMO measure for all nine items combined, related to the
respondents’ perceptions, showed the value of 0.844, which is higher than 0.60,

--- Página 306 ---
290
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.40
KMO and Bartlett’s Test results for the nine items
combined
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin Measure of Sampling Adequacy
0.844
Bartlett’s Test of Sphericity
Approx. Chi-Square
173.046
df
36
Sig.
0.000
implying that factor analysis is appropriate for this study. In addition, the signifi-
cant p-value of 0.000 is significantly lower than critical p-value of 0.05. Therefore,
the identity matrix can be rejected. Based on the very encouraging results from
both tests, factor analysis may be performed.
In the second step, PCA is used for data extraction, and then Varimax rota-
tion is used in order to reduce the number of variables as in Table 8.41, which
presents the output of the number of factors that are retained according to Kaiser’s
criterion, in which all the eigenvalues are more than 1.0. In this situation, there
are three factors that will be retained, since the eigenvalues are 3.170, 1.356 and
1.332 respectively.
The results indicate that these three components can explain 64.9% of the total
variation, which satisfies the use of factor analysis.
Figure 8.2, which is basically a graph of the eigenvalues, shows that the nine
variables could be reduced to only three as the graph slopes down steeply before
TABLE 8.41
Total variance explained for Question 16
Initial Eigenvalues
Rotation Sums of
Squared Loadings
Component
Total
% of
Variance
Cumulative
%
Total
% of
Variance
Cumulative
%
1
3.682
40.906
40.906
3.170
35.225
35.225
2
1.136
12.617
53.523
1.356
15.064
50.289
3
1.031
11.456
64.980
1.322
14.691
64.980
4
0.746
8.287
73.267
5
0.637
7.081
80.348
6
0.523
5.813
86.161
7
0.459
5.098
91.260
8
0.402
4.472
95.732
9
0.384
4.268
100.000
Note: Extraction method: PCA

--- Página 307 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
291
1
4
3
2
1
0
2
3
4
Component Number
Screen Plot
Eigenvalue
5
6
7
8
9
FIGURE 8.2
Screen plot for Question 16
becoming parallel to the horizontal line after the third component. It is clear from
the plot that there is only a three-factor solution to this question. Therefore, it was
decided to retain the three factors.
Table 8.41 shows that there are three factors with an eigenvalue greater than
1.0; this means that the original nine items can be simply reduced to three factors.
The three-component solution explains 64.9% of the variance with component 1
contributing 40.9%, component 2 contributing 12.6% and component 3 contribut-
ing 11.5%. The explanatory power of the first factor is very high.
Table 8.42 further provides a rotated component matrix by distributing all
variables to the identified three components. The test results showed no com-
ponent for factor 2; therefore the researcher accepted factors 1 and 3 only. The
factors in each component have some common characteristics and measure the
same phenomenon and therefore each component is named with a general descrip-
tion of the factors or variables it includes. For instance, factors in component 1 deal
with ‘resilience of IFIs’. The factors in component three deal with ‘risk manage-
ment must be embedded institutionally’. The former includes seven statements,

--- Página 308 ---
292
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.42
Rotated component matrixa for Question 16
Component
1. Resilience
of IFIs
2.
3. Risk
management
must be
institutional
Islamic banks are more resilient to economic
shocks than their conventional peers
0.776
−0.050
−0.238
The recent crisis would not have happened
under a true Islamic banking system
0.764
0.081
−0.082
Islamic finance could have solved the global
crisis
0.643
0.468
−0.146
Risk management must be embedded
institutionally
−0.100
−0.189
0.834
Banks in general used to rely heavily on
rating agencies
0.552
0.447
0.358
Islamic banks rely less on rating agencies
than conventional banks
0.454
−0.029
−0.583
Islamic finance industry should develop its
own rating agencies
0.743
0.265
−0.075
Islamic banks will emerge stronger from the
crisis
0.706
−0.007
−0.211
Consolidation is needed among smaller
Islamic banks
−0.012
−0.906
0.156
Notes: Extraction method: PCA.
Rotation method: Varimax with Kaiser Normalization.
a Rotation converged in nine iterations
while the latter includes only two components. Thus, the heavy weight is with the
‘resilience of IFIs’ component.
MANOVA test according to region for Question 16
After conducting fac-
tor analysis between groups a MANOVA test was computed in order to investigate
if there is any significant difference between the two factors in relation to same
control variables. This will help to locate the impact or significance of each control
variable on the established distribution.
The MANOVA test was conducted according to ‘Region’ as the independent
variable with the objective of testing the significance of ‘Region’ on the iden-
tified two components. In this case, the output of the Box’s Test in Table 8.43
shows that there is no violation of assumption of homogeneity of variances of
variance-covariance matrices since the sig. value of 0.013 is higher than the critical
value of 0.001.

--- Página 309 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
293
TABLE 8.43
Box’s Test of
Equality of Covariance Matricesa
Box’s M
24.157
F
2.342
df1
9
df2
824.888
Sig.
0.013
Note: Tests the null hypothesis that the
observed covariance matrices of the depen-
dent variables are equal across groups.
a Design: Intercept + Region
TABLE 8.44
Levene’s Test of Equality of Error Variancesa
F
df1
df2
Sig.
Resilience of IFIs
0.625
5
66
0.681
Risk management is institutional
1.398
5
66
0.236
Notes: Tests the null hypothesis that the error variance of the dependent variable is equal
across groups.
a Design: Intercept + Region
Additionally, the output of the Levene’s Test of Equality of Error Variances
(Table 8.44) is explored. The results in the Sig. column show that sig. values of
‘Resilience of IFIs’ (0.681) and ‘Risk management must be institutional’ (0.236)
are higher than 0.05. Thus, there is no violation of the assumption of equality of
variances for these two factors.
The results of the Wilks’ Lambda in Table 8.45 show that there is a statistically
significant difference according to the region since the sig. value of 0.01 is quite
a bit lower than the critical level of 0.05.
Since the multivariate test suggests that there is a statistically significant dif-
ference, a further investigation is conducted. Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
provide this information. In this case, there are two dependent variables, there-
fore 0.05 is divided by two and the new alpha level is 0.025. As can be seen
in the Tests of Between-Subjects Effects in Table 8.46, the results indicate that
‘Resilience of IFIs’ has significant values of 0.000, while ‘Risk management must
be institutional’ has a sig. value of 0.242, which is higher than the critical value
of 0.025 for this example. Furthermore, the effect size values as evaluated by the
Partial Eta Squared for ‘Resilience of IFIs’ is 0.320, which are deemed large-effect
sizes using Cohen’s criteria. It can be concluded that these results, which signify

--- Página 310 ---
294
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.45
Multivariate testsc
Effect
Value
F
Hypoth-
esis
df
Error
df
Sig.
Partial
Eta
Squared
Intercept Pillai’s Trace
0.975 1255.030a
2.000
65.000 0.000
0.975
Wilks’ Lambda
0.025 1255.030a
2.000
65.000 0.000
0.975
Hotelling’s Trace
38.616 1255.030a
2.000
65.000 0.000
0.975
Roy’s Largest Root 38.616 1255.030a
2.000
65.000 0.000
0.975
Region
Pillai’s Trace
0.370
2.992
10.000
132.000 0.002
0.185
Wilks’ Lambda
0.646
3.175a
10.000
130.000 0.001
0.196
Hotelling’s Trace
0.524
3.354
10.000
128.000 0.001
0.208
Roy’s Largest Root
0.473
6.249b
5.000
66.000 0.000
0.321
Notes
a Exact statistic.
b The statistic is an upper bound on F that yields a lower bound on the significance level.
c Design: Intercept + Region
TABLE 8.46
Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
Source
Dependent Variable
Type III
Sum of
Squares
df
Mean
Square
F
Sig.
Partial
Eta
Squared
Corrected Model Resilience of IFIs
13.209a
5
2.642
6.221 0.000
0.320
Risk management is
institutional
2.821b
5
0.564
1.384 0.242
0.095
Intercept
Resilience of IFIs
313.934
1 313.934
739.239 0.000
0.918
Risk management is
institutional
438.911
1 438.911 1076.963 0.000
0.942
Region
Resilience of IFIs
13.209
5
2.642
6.221 0.000
0.320
Risk management is
institutional
2.821
5
0.564
1.384 0.242
0.095
Error
Resilience of IFIs
28.028
66
0.425
Risk management is
institutional
26.898
66
0.408
Total
Resilience of IFIs
877.837
72
Risk management is
institutional
1292.250
72
Corrected Total
Resilience of IFIs
41.237
71
Risk management is
institutional
29.719
71
Notes
a R Squared = 0.320 (Adjusted R Squared = 0.269).
b R Squared = 0.095 (Adjusted R Squared = 0.026)

--- Página 311 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
295
32% of the variances in ‘Resilience of IFIs’ scores, are explained respectively
by region.
An attempt was also made to see the effect of ‘Nature of FI’ on the identified
components in factor analysis through MANOVA. However, no significant results
could be established.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING
This part of the questionnaire examines the risk management and hedging tech-
niques used within IFIs. Question 17 covers the frequency of producing risk man-
agement reports as perceived by the participants, and is applicable only to financial
institutions.
As depicted by Table 8.47, the K-W test for fully fledged Islamic banks,
conventional banks with Islamic activities, and conventional banks shows
that, statistically, there is a significant difference among various regions in the
frequency of producing risk reports (p-value < 0.05) except for Commodity
Risk Report (0.094), Industry Concentration Risk Report (0.129), Credit Expo-
sure Report (0.091) and Large Exposure Report (0.071). Hence, for the rest of
the reports there are significant differences in the perceptions of the participants.
Thus, for most of the reports region is a significant factor.
Repeating the K-W test with ‘Region’ as the control variable for various
institutional samples of data gives different results as the removal of conventional
banks from the sample shows that the distribution of frequency of producing
reports becomes the same across more reports, i.e. fewer risk reports show sta-
tistical significance in the frequency of production across regions. By removing
Islamic subsidiaries from the sample and conducting the K-W test on fully
fledged Islamic banks exclusively, only two reports (FX Risk Report and Credit
Exposure Report) become statistically significant across various regions.
The results reflect the risk management culture difference between Islamic
and conventional banks. By conducting the K-W test on fully fledged IFIs only,
there was little significance between the responses across different regions. How-
ever, expanding the sample to include Islamic subsidiaries of conventional banks
increased the significant difference in risk reporting across regions. When the sam-
ple was expanded further to incorporate conventional banks, the significance in
difference becomes more noticeable.
Tables 8.48 to 8.55 examine the mean rankings for reports with statistically
significant differences in frequency of production.
In this particular case mean ranking requires clarification. Since during coding
‘daily reporting’ was assigned value 1, and ‘never’ was assigned value 5, this has

--- Página 312 ---
296
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.47
K-W test results for Question 17 (risk reporting) by region for selected
sample data
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional Banks
with Islamic
Activities and
Conventional Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Frequency of Producing:
Chi-
Square df
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square df
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square df
Asymp.
Sig.
Capital Requirement
Report
28.727
5
0.00
11.746
4
0.019
7.89
4
0.096
Operational Risk
Report
18.01
5
0.003
3.534
4
0.473
2.208
4
0.698
Profit Rate Risk
Report
20.859
5
0.001
8.04
4
0.09
4.539
4
0.338
FX Risk Report
19.469
5
0.002
10.321
4
0.035
9.646
4
0.047
Liquidity Risk Report
19.312
5
0.002
8.026
4
0.091
5.357
4
0.253
Commodity Risk
Report
9.405
5
0.094
6.636
4
0.156
7.297
4
0.121
Country Report
11.58
5
0.041
6.554
4
0.161
5.218
4
0.266
Equity
Mark-to-Market
Report
12.611
5
0.027
11.406
4
0.022
6.464
4
0.167
Classified Accounts
Report
16.91
5
0.005
9.651
4
0.047
5.386
4
0.25
Industry
Concentration Risk
Report
8.537
5
0.129
3.168
4
0.53
3.153
4
0.533
Credit Exposure
Report
9.479
5
0.091
10.937
4
0.027
12.452
4
0.014
Large Exposure
Report
10.155
5
0.071
9.408
4
0.052
7.111
4
0.13
impact on the mean ranking. In other words, the better mean value here would be
the lower value indicating better disclosure.
The results presented in this section so far indicate a particular pattern.
The trend is obvious: conventional banks, concentrated in Europe and the
Americas, produce risk reports more frequently than Islamic banks. Risk man-
agement and reporting is more advanced in conventional banking than in Islamic
banking.

--- Página 313 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
297
TABLE 8.48
Frequency of producing Capital Requirement Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
13.5
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
18.3
2nd
12
13.46
1st
5
8
1st
GCC
19
32.03
4th
16
20.75
3rd
9
12.5
3rd
Other
2
23.5
3rd
2
14.75
2nd
2
8.75
2nd
Other Middle East
12
47.63
6th
5
31.9
5th
5
19.5
5th
Southeast Asia
4
37.5
5th
4
24.38
4th
4
14.38
4th
Total
59
39
25
TABLE 8.49
Frequency of producing Operational Risk Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
11.5
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
19.5
2nd
12
15.17
1st
5
9.1
1st
GCC
19
33.08
4th
16
19.94
3rd
9
12.22
3rd
Other
2
27.5
3rd
2
17
2nd
2
10.25
2nd
Other Middle East
11
40.18
6th
4
24.13
5th
4
14.63
5th
Southeast Asia
3
38.17
5th
3
23.83
4th
3
13.83
4th
Total
57
37
23

--- Página 314 ---
298
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.50
Frequency of Producing Profit Rate Risk Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
17
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
18.95
2nd
12
13.67
1st
5
7.9
1st
GCC
19
33.11
4th
16
20.56
2nd
9
12.61
2nd
Other
2
32.5
3rd
2
21.5
3rd
2
12.75
3rd
Other Middle East
12
41.88
6th
5
27.5
5th
5
16.5
5th
Southeast Asia
3
33.83
5th
3
22.5
4th
3
13
4th
Total
58
38
24
TABLE 8.51
Frequency of producing FX Risk Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
13
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
19
19.18
2nd
11
13.5
1st
5
8
1st
GCC
19
29.97
4th
16
17.66
3rd
9
9.67
2nd
Other
2
29.5
3rd
2
17.25
2nd
2
10.75
3rd
Other Middle East
11
39.91
5th
4
29.5
5th
4
18.75
5th
Southeast Asia
3
46
6th
3
27.5
4th
3
17.5
4th
Total
56
36
23

--- Página 315 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
299
TABLE 8.52
Frequency of producing Liquidity Risk Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
18.5
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
19.78
2nd
12
13.5
1st
5
7
1st
GCC
19
33.13
4th
16
22
3rd
9
14.44
3rd
Other
2
31.25
3rd
2
21
2nd
2
12.5
2nd
Other Middle East
12
41.25
6th
5
24.4
4th
5
14.8
4th
Southeast Asia
4
37.63
5th
4
25.5
5th
4
15.25
5th
Total
59
39
25
TABLE 8.53
Frequency of producing Country Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
16.5
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
25.13
2nd
12
18.79
1st
5
13.9
3rd
GCC
19
27.47
3rd
16
16.53
2nd
9
9.17
1st
Other
2
33.75
4th
2
20.75
3rd
2
12.25
2nd
Other Middle East
12
39
5th
5
28.1
5th
5
16.9
5th
Southeast Asia
4
44.25
6th
4
27
4th
4
16
4th
Total
59
39
25

--- Página 316 ---
300
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.54
Frequency of producing Equity Mark-to-Market Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
15.5
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
22.55
2nd
12
15.13
1st
5
8.9
1st
GCC
19
30.34
3rd
16
18.03
2nd
9
11.94
3rd
Other
2
36.75
4th
2
23
3rd
2
13.25
4th
Other Middle East
12
39.96
6th
5
33.8
5th
5
19.8
5th
Southeast Asia
4
39.63
5th
4
23.75
4th
4
11.88
2nd
Total
59
39
25
TABLE 8.55
Frequency of producing Classified Accounts Report
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks,
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
and Conventional
Banks
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks and
Conventional
Banks with
Islamic Activities
Fully Fledged
Islamic Banks
Region
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
8.5
1st
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Europe
20
20
2nd
12
14.75
1st
5
11.9
3rd
GCC
19
33.95
4th
16
19.78
3rd
9
12.28
4th
Other
2
32.5
3rd
2
17
2nd
2
7.5
1st
Other Middle East
10
37.7
6th
4
32.5
5th
4
18.5
5th
Southeast Asia
4
37.25
5th
4
20.88
4th
4
10.25
2nd
Total
57
38
24

--- Página 317 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
301
RISK MEASUREMENT
This section expands the descriptive analytical analysis conducted in Chapter 7
by examining the impact of various control variables on respondents’ views
regarding the use of numerous techniques to measure and analyse risk. For this
purpose, the researcher used K-W to determine if there were any statistically
significant differences across the categories of respondent profiles, specifically
region, respondent’s position, nature of financial institution, nature of activities
and accounting standards. Since this question targets financial institutions only,
the sample used for this question is restricted to bankers.
‘Region’ and ‘Nature of Financial Institution’ are the control variables
selected for analysis by mean ranking, being the control variables with the
most significant results, and because these two variables are most essential to
the difference in risk management techniques among banks. As can be seen in
Table 8.56, ‘Region’ has five significant risk management techniques, and ‘Nature
of Financial Institution’ has three significant techniques. Thus, they have more
significant variables compared to others, which justifies their further analysis.
Table 8.57 shows that conventional banks in relation to their regional
location, concentrated outside of the GCC and Middle East, use more advanced
risk management techniques than Islamic banks. The ‘Americas’ are the most
advanced across all techniques, followed often by ‘Other’ or ‘Europe’. The rest
TABLE 8.56
K-W test results for Question 18 (risk measurement) for selected
sample data according to various control variables
Region
Respondent’s
Position
Nature of
Financial
Institution
Nature of
Activities
Accounting
Standards
Risk Management
Technique
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Internal based
ratings
6.223
0.285
9.79
0.459
1.612
0.447
3.067
0.69
3.699
0.296
Credit ratings by
rating agencies
1.58
0.904
6.81
0.743
3.396
0.183
8.01
0.156
11.78
0.008
Gap analysis
17.56
0.004
10.8
0.372
0.516
0.773
6.884
0.229
7.119
0.068
Duration analysis
15.69
0.008
14.2
0.163
2.468
0.291
6.559
0.256
7.151
0.067
Maturity
matching analysis
8.155
0.148
5.78
0.833
0.344
0.842
10.79
0.056
6.028
0.11
Earnings at risk
8.58
0.127
10.0
0.438
7.754
0.021
10.14
0.071
4.029
0.258
Value at risk
10.98
0.052
13.0
0.222
1.926
0.382
5.731
0.333
5.134
0.162
Stress testing
17.48
0.004
9.70
0.466
4.91
0.086
7.604
0.179
5.687
0.128
Simulation
techniques
14.60
0.012
19.2
0.038
6.64
0.036
13.05
0.023
7.708
0.052
RAROC
19.65
0.001
16.0
0.097
12.29
0.002
10.79
0.056
7.373
0.061

--- Página 318 ---
302
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.57
K-W test mean rankings for risk measurement by region for selected
sample data
Risk Management
Technique
Gap analysis
Duration
analysis
Stress
testing
Simulation
techniques
RAROC
Nature of Financial
Institution
N
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Mean
Rank Rank
Americas
2
36
1st
36.5
1st
41
1st
48.5
1st
42.5
1st
Europe
20
33.05
4th
35.03
3rd
36.58
3rd
36.7
2nd
33.65
3rd
GCC
19
34.45
3rd
31.84
4th
30.13
4th
28.32
4th
36.29
2nd
Other
2
36
1st
36.5
1st
41
1st
33.75
3rd
27.75
4th
Other Middle East
12
18.79
6th
19.29
6th
21.33
5th
21.46
5th
15.46
6th
Southeast Asia
4
21.25
5th
21.75
5th
11.5
6th
19
6th
20.38
5th
Total
59
Note: Only techniques with significant p-value are further analysed by mean ranking
TABLE 8.58
K-W test mean rankings for risk measurement by nature of financial
institution for selected sample data
Risk Management Technique
Earnings
at Risk
Simulation
Techniques
RAROC
Nature of Financial
Institution
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Fully Fledged
Islamic Bank
25
23.98
3rd
26.08
3rd
22.44
3rd
Conventional Bank
with Islamic
Activities
14
34.18
2nd
27.43
2nd
38.29
1st
Conventional Bank
20
34.6
1st
36.7
1st
33.65
2nd
Total
59
Note: Only techniques with significant p-value are further analysed by mean ranking
of the regional samples include mostly Islamic banks; their use of sophisticated
risk measurements, however, is not as significant as in conventional banks in the
Americas and Europe, as evidenced from mean ranking.
These results in Table 8.58 confirm that there is a particular trend determined
by the market realities. The use of risk management techniques in IFIs is not as
sophisticated or as widely spread as in the conventional banking world. Fully
fledged Islamic banks rank third across all techniques as not many IFIs use the
more technically advanced risk measurement approaches, which is evidenced from
the mean ranking in Table 8.58.

--- Página 319 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
303
RISK MITIGATION
As previously discussed, risk mitigation and hedging are controversial issues in
Islamic banking. Different mitigation techniques are subject to different interpre-
tations by Shari’ah scholars. There have been substantial efforts in developing
Shari’ah-compliant hedging instruments, which are the subject of this section.
These include: on balance sheet netting, collateral arrangements, Islamic options,
Islamic swaps, guarantees, Islamic currency forwards and parallel contracts. How-
ever, much of this progress remains localised with limited scope for cross-border
application and further work is still needed as evident from the results of the K-W
test in Table 8.59. Question 20 targets institutions that use Islamic finance contracts
only; therefore, when conducting the K-W test, only stand-alone Islamic banks
and Islamic subsidiaries were included in the raw data in relation to five control
variables: region, respondent’s position, nature of financial institution, nature of
activities and accounting standards.
‘Nature of Financial Institution’ is the control variable selected for analysis by
mean ranking as it has the highest number of significant results and because this
variable is most essential to the difference in risk mitigation techniques among
financial institutions, as illustrated in Table 8.60.
These results confirm that there is a general trend determined by the market
realities. With the exception of Islamic swaps and Islamic currency forwards,
fully fledged Islamic banks fell behind Islamic subsidiaries in using all other
risk mitigation techniques. The latter group tends to benefit from the already
TABLE 8.59
K-W test results for Question 20 (risk mitigation) for selected sample
data according to various control variables
Region
Respondent’s
Position
Nature of
Financial
Institution
Nature of
Activities
Accounting
Standards
Risk Mitigation
Technique
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
On balance sheet
netting
9.65
0.086
22.841
0.011
44.91
0.00
8.483
0.132
5.371
0.147
Collateral
arrangements
11.25
0.047
22.177
0.014
53.14
0.00
8.599
0.126
5.248
0.155
Islamic options
16.94
0.005
20.417
0.026
46.59
0.00
15.034
0.01
9.811
0.02
Islamic swaps
14.65
0.012
21.024
0.021
44.73
0.00
12.76
0.026
12.991
0.005
Guarantees
8.64
0.124
24.37
0.007
52.24
0.00
11.293
0.046
6.088
0.107
Islamic currency
forwards
9.98
0.076
23.579
0.009
54.59
0.00
8.787
0.118
5.287
0.152
Parallel
contracts
10.30
0.067
18.794
0.043
45.59
0.00
12
0.035
6.838
0.077

--- Página 320 ---
304
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.60
K-W test mean rankings by nature of financial institution for selected
sample data
Risk Mitigation
Technique
On
Balance
Sheet
Netting
Collateral
Arrange-
ments
Islamic
Options
Islamic
Swaps
Guarantees
Islamic
Currency
Forwards
Parallel
Contracts
Nature of
Financial
Institution
N
Mean Rank
Fully Fledged
Islamic Bank
25
19.2
19.94
19.68
20.02
18.88
20.22
19.46
(2nd)
(2nd)
(2nd)
(1st)
(2nd)
(1st)
(2nd)
Conventional
Bank with
Islamic
Activities
14
21.43
20.11
20.57
19.96
22
19.61
20.96
(1st)
(1st)
(1st)
(2nd)
(1st)
(2nd)
(1st)
Total
39
Note: Ordering in parentheses refers to mean ranking
developed risk mitigation platforms at their conventional parents. However, of
notice is that the difference in the value of mean ranking between the two groups
is small, which reflects that IFIs are progressing in the use of risk mitigation but
that still the use of risk mitigation techniques in IFIs is not as developed as in
conventional banking.
ISLAMIC BANKING IN PRACTICE
This section examines the proposition that Islamic banking has been diverting from
its roots by mimicking conventional banks. In doing so, a K-W test was conducted
using the entire sample according to nature of financial institution.
This section aims to test the participants’ perceptions in relation to the fol-
lowing statements. The coding of the statements as they appear in the tables is as
follows:
1. Islamic banks have been mimicking conventional models.
2. Islamic finance provides an ethical banking alternative.
3. There is a difference between current practice and the principles of Islamic
banking.
4. Islamic banks need to reform to be successful.
As depicted by Table 8.61, only Statement 3 is statistically significant,
reflecting the similarities in views among respondents about the diversion

--- Página 321 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
305
TABLE 8.61
K-W test results by nature of financial institution for Question 21 for
entire research sample
Nature of
Statement
Financial Institution
1
2
3
4
Chi-Square
7.566
4.589
12.812
7.171
Asymp. Sig.
0.056
0.205
0.005
0.067
Nature of
Financial
Institution
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Fully Fledged
Islamic Bank
25
38.22
2nd
42.3
1st
40.94
2nd
37.24
2nd
Conventional
Bank with
Islamic
Activities
14
26.79
4th
37.86
2nd
29.89
4th
27
4th
Conventional
Bank
20
34.23
3rd
30.15
4th
27.18
3rd
35.2
3rd
Others
13
47.15
1st
33.65
3rd
49.42
1st
47.31
1st
Total
72
between principles and current practices in Islamic banking. However, with a
‘relaxation’ of the confidence level to 0.06, Statement 1 can also be accepted as
statistically significant. Furthermore, mean rankings reflect a pattern across all
statements, with the exception of Statement 2. Non-bankers (Others) scored the
highest mean, followed by fully fledged Islamic banks, conventional banks and
Islamic subsidiaries respectively. This reflects the risk appetite of each group.
Interestingly, Islamic bankers are more critical of the current practices in the
industry than their conventional peers. This could be explained by the fact that
Islamic bankers are more educated about the underlying principles of Islamic
finance and have a better understanding of current structures than conventional
bankers. The ‘Others’ category comprises Shari’ah scholars, consultants,
researchers, etc., whose better understanding of the ideologies of Islamic banking
is reflected in their lack of satisfaction with Islamic banking in its current state
(highest mean ranking for three statements).
Repeating the K-W test with ‘Region’ as the control variable for the entire
research sample gives different results, as illustrated by Table 8.62. All statements
are statistically insignificant, except Statement 2, which shows the common dis-
satisfaction with the current status of Islamic banking across all regions.
Despites the similarities between views of respondents across various regions
(only Statement 2 has a significant p-value), the mean ranking results show dis-
persed results; no trend can be established across various regions.

--- Página 322 ---
306
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 8.62
K-W test results by region for Question 21 for entire research sample
Statement
Region
1
2
3
4
Chi-Square
8.202
19.551
4.25
3.227
Asymp. Sig.
0.145
0.002
0.514
0.665
Mean
Mean
Mean
Mean
Region
N
Rank
Rank
Rank
Rank
Rank
Rank
Rank
Rank
Americas
2
51.75
1st
9.5
6th
24.75
6th
27.5
6th
Europe
31
40.45
2nd
29.24
4th
35.92
4th
38.42
2nd
GCC
19
26.92
5th
46.71
2nd
36.66
3rd
38
3rd
Other
2
51.75
1st
62.5
1st
60.5
1st
50
1st
Other Middle
East
14
35.39
4th
42.5
3rd
34.11
5th
32.14
4th
Southeast Asia
4
40
3rd
23.75
5th
42.5
2nd
27.5
5th
Total
72
In addition, an attempt was made to test the impact of the ‘Respondent’s
Position’ on the views; however, the results show that there are no significant
differences as all p-value > 0.05.
THE NEXT CHAPTER IN ISLAMIC BANKING
The last section of the questionnaire is a forward-looking question that explores
different strategies IFIs should follow in order to prepare for the day after tomor-
row. For this, eight statements were provided to the respondents to disclose their
opinion. The data was analysed through K-W test.
As shown in Table 8.63, ‘Nature of Financial Institution’ is the only control
variable whose results had some statistically significant outcomes across different
groups. ‘Organic growth in home market’ and ‘Standardisation’ had p-values of
0.036 and 0.015 respectively. The mean rankings of these two strategies according
to ‘Nature of Financial Institution’ are examined in Table 8.64. As regards other
control variables, the opinions do not show differences but rather convergence.
As can be seen from Table 8.63, no particular pattern could be identified. For
‘Organic growth in home market’, conventional banks were more aggressive with
a high mean value (46.6), followed by others (38.46), fully fledged Islamic bank
(31.68) and finally Islamic subsidiaries (28.86). However, this trend was almost
reversed for ‘Standardisation’ with Islamic subsidiaries having the highest mean
value (49.68), which is much higher than the rest of the categories. Conventional
banks rank last with a mean of 28.65.

--- Página 323 ---
Analysing Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Dimensions and Issues
307
TABLE 8.63
K-W test results for Question 22 for the entire sample according to
various control variables
Region
Respondent’s
Position
Nature of
Financial
Institution
Nature of
Activities
Accounting
Standards
Strategy
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Chi-
Square
Asymp.
Sig.
Improved risk
management
5.22
0.389
15.3
0.358
2.59
0.458
1.991
0.921
3.607 0.462
Enhanced
morality –
back to roots
9.10
0.105
11.82
0.621
5.49
0.139
9.002
0.173
3.799 0.434
Mergers and
acquisitions
3.80
0.578
17.49
0.231
1.28
0.732
5.956
0.428
6.094 0.192
Organic growth
in home market
10.83
0.055
13.98
0.451
8.57
0.036
2.965
0.813
2.216 0.696
Better risk
mitigation
9.07
0.106
16.07
0.309
7.28
0.063
9.697
0.138
3.556 0.469
Innovation
1.42
0.921
12.13
0.596
3.04
0.385
12.17
0.058
1.435 0.838
Diversification –
reduce
concentration
5.09
0.404
17.36
0.238
5.06
0.167
6.979
0.323
6.118 0.191
Standardisation
7.14
0.21
21.59
0.087
10.5
0.015
5.246
0.513
5.301 0.258
TABLE 8.64
K-W test mean rankings by nature of financial institution for entire
sample
Strategy
Organic
Growth in
Home Market
Standardisation
Nature of Financial Institution
N
Mean
Rank
Rank
Mean
Rank
Rank
Fully Fledged Islamic Bank
25
31.68
3rd
38.88
2nd
Conventional Bank with Islamic Activities
14
28.86
4th
49.68
1st
Conventional Bank
20
46.6
1st
28.65
4th
Others
13
38.46
2nd
29.81
3rd
Total
72
CONCLUSION
This chapter represents the second part of the quantitative analysis for the ques-
tionnaire. The objective of this chapter was to gauge the perception of the
respondents regarding different risk management and capital adequacy issues in

--- Página 324 ---
308
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Islamic banking, the effect of the recent global crisis on Islamic banking, and
what the future holds for the industry. Various inferential statistical tools were
employed to examine the relationship between the characteristics of the sample
respondents and their risk perceptions. K-W analysis was the most-performed test
to find out if there were any significant differences caused by the category to which
the respondents belonged, and the results of testing were subsequently interpreted.
‘Region’ was the control variable that displayed the most statistically
significant differences among respondents’ perceptions for different parts of the
questionnaire. Analysis according to ‘Nature of Financial Institution’, ‘Nature of
Activities’ and ‘Respondent’s Position’ also revealed some general trends that
can be attributed to prevailing market conditions. ‘Accounting Standards’ was
used as control variable as well; however, the results did not often provide much
statistical significance for this category.
The differences among respondents’ answers were scrutinised to test if there
were significant differences related to characteristics. Chapter 9 takes the analy-
sis one step further by qualitatively analysing the field interviews conducted with
Islamic banking professionals, while further analysis was then carried out to make
more sense of the available facts. Detailed analysis of the findings of this chapter,
within the context of the findings of descriptive statistical analysis of the question-
naire and the interview analysis, is provided in an integrated manner in Chapter 10.

--- Página 325 ---
CHAPTER9
Exploring Perceptions of Risk
and Risk Management Practices
in Islamic Banking
Interview Data Analysis
T
his chapter focuses on the qualitative analysis of data assembled through indi-
vidual in-depth interviews with Islamic banking professionals. In analysing the
data, focused coding technique is used. The objective is to explore the responses
of the interviewees in relation to risk practices as conducted in their financial insti-
tutions and banks. It is also considered that the findings from this chapter can help
to substantiate the findings established in the earlier analyses, but also to develop
further meaning in relation to the risk management practices.
In this chapter, the primary data collected through in-depth interviews is sum-
marised and analysed. The outcomes and results are matched with the research
objectives. Although the outcomes from the interviews are mainly discussed in
this chapter, views and quotes from interviewees are used as supporting arguments
throughout this book.
It should be noted that the focused coding method based on thematic under-
standing is utilised as the main method of analysis.
INTERVIEW ANALYSIS
A detailed explanation in relation to the process and analysis of interviews was
given in Chapter 6 on the research methodology. It should be reiterated that the
interviews conducted with bankers, financiers and Shari’ah scholars were audio
recorded with the permission of the interviewees. When recording was not pos-
sible because of the spontaneity with which the interview was arranged, notes
were taken in shorthand by the interviewer, and even when an interview was being
recorded, shorthand notes were also kept.
Interviews were transcribed and the interview notes were read several times,
which helped to create the thematic areas but also the focused coding. In other
309

--- Página 326 ---
310
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
words, notes were transferred into segments representing complete thoughts on
a single question or topic, in line with the original research questions. All tran-
scribed interviews, thus, were broken into coded segments representing complete
thought statements. After coding, the interview segments were transferred from
word-processing format to a spreadsheet for further analysis.
FORMING THE MAIN INTERVIEW THEMES
The interview themes and questions were designed within the context of the main
research questions and hypotheses explained in Chapter 6. The interviews covered
the same topics as the questionnaire, as the main purpose of the semi-structured
interviews was to prove or disprove the conclusions driven from the questionnaire
data analysis. The main themes were:
1. Risk perception in Islamic banking;
2. Capital adequacy for Islamic banks;
3. Islamic banking and the global credit crisis;
4. Risk mitigation in Islamic banking;
5. The dichotomy between the theory and practice of Islamic banking; and
6. The next chapter in Islamic banking.
It should be noted that a theme may have occurred several times within
an interview, but, for purposes of analysis, a theme was counted only once per
interview.
INTERVIEW QUESTIONS
Prior to the interviews, an interview guide was prepared by listing the important
topics to be covered and drafting a list of questions to be explored with the
respondents, including sub-topics. Nevertheless, in-depth interviews are never
rigidly defined. They are, by nature, structured to allow respondents the freedom
to express their thoughts, feelings and insights. Therefore, during the interviews,
the phrasing of questions and their order or sequence were redefined to fit the
characteristics of each interview.
The following were the main interview questions:
Theme A – Risk perception in Islamic banking
(i) What are the main risks facing Islamic banks?
(ii) Does the risk perception in Islamic banks differ from conventional bank-
ing, and in what sense? Are Islamic banks riskier than their conventional
counterparts?

--- Página 327 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
311
(iii) Do you believe that Islamic banking products are structured differently as
compared to conventional banking products?
(iv) Do you think IFIs actually favour mark-up based contracts over profit-sharing
contracts? Why?
Theme B – Capital adequacy for Islamic banks
(i) How suitable are the Basel II standards to Islamic banking?
(ii) Do Islamic banks need to reserve more or less capital compared to their con-
ventional peers?
(iii) What impact will Basel III have on Islamic banks? Will the Basel III standards
consider Islamic banking?
(iv) Are the Basel III new regulatory standards more likely to prevent a major
crisis similar to the recent one? Has Basel II failed in preventing the crisis?
Theme C – Islamic banking and the global credit crisis
(i) There is much debate about the resilience of Islamic banking against the finan-
cial crisis. Do you think that Islamic banking has really been resilient to the
crisis, or does it suffer from the same flaws as conventional banking?
(ii) Could the recent crisis have occurred under an Islamic banking system? Will
the Islamic finance industry gain confidence after the current financial crisis?
Theme D – Risk mitigation in Islamic banking
(i) What do you think about risk mitigation in Islamic banking? Do you consider
it Shari’ah-compliant? How important is hedging to the industry?
Theme E – The dichotomy between the theory and practice of Islamic banking
(i) How Shari’ah-compliant is Islamic banking within current practice? Do you
believe that Islamic banks need to reform in order to be successful?
Theme F – The next chapter in Islamic banking
(i) What strategies should Islamic banks focus on over the coming decade? What
do you believe are the catalysts for the growth of Islamic banking?
RESULTS AND DATA ANALYSIS
Risk Perception in Islamic Banking
This first part of the interview analysis aims at the participants’ opinions regard-
ing risk management issues in Islamic banking. Questions 1, 2, 3 and 4 explore
how the risk perception in Islamic banking differs from conventional banking, the
unique risk characteristics of Islamic financial institutions (IFIs), the risks inherent

--- Página 328 ---
312
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
in Islamic banking contracts, and the risk management techniques used by IFIs.
Tables 9.1 to 9.6 present the findings from the focused coding analysis for Ques-
tion 1 about the main risks facing Islamic banks. The results of the analysis for
Question 2 are presented in Tables 9.7 to 9.9, while Tables 9.10 to 9.12 summarise
the findings for Question 3, which asks the participants whether they believe that
Islamic banking products are structured differently to conventional products.
As can be seen from Table 9.1, several weaknesses and vulnerabilities among
IFIs have been identified by the respondents in the areas of risk management
and governance, particularly in terms of the handling of asset–liability maturity
mismatches, Shari’ah-non-compliance, reputational risk and real estate exposure
and concentration risk. Respondents identified Shari’ah-non-compliance, liquid-
ity, concentration, asset-liability management (ALM) and reputational risks as the
main risk facing IFIs. Tables 9.2 to 9.6 examine the respondents’ answers regarding
each of these identified risks.
Some interviewees, particularly Shari’ah scholars and researchers, regarded
Shari’ah-non-compliance as a major risk, as it can have a material impact on the
IFIs’ risk profile, and its ripple effect can create other risks, particularly reputa-
tional and legal risks. Islamic finance disputes in courts, especially in international
deals, are decided by judges trained under common law and not particularly under
TABLE 9.1
Results for Question 1
Question 1
What are the main risks facing Islamic banks?
Focused Coding
1
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk
2
Liquidity risk
3
ALM risk
4
Concentration risk
5
Reputational risk
Theme: Main risks facing IFIs are liquidity risk, ALM risk, concentration risk,
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk and concentration risk.
TABLE 9.2
Focused coding number 1 for Question 1
Shari’ah non-compliance risk
Interview 1
The risk of being perceived as non-Shari’ah-compliant could severely
damage the creditworthiness of an IFI
Interview 3
AAOIFI has taken some steps in this regard with its institutional
certifications of Shari’ah compliance
Interview 4
Interface between Shari’ah and civil systems create range of risks

--- Página 329 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
313
Islamic jurisprudence. This requires an interface between Shari’ah and civil law,
thus adding additional legal risks. Moreover, respondents widely felt that the appli-
cation of Shari’ah compliance as a commercial and defensive legal tool, like the
case where the distressed Investment Dar Company’s own Shari’ah board retracted
its approval, undermines the credibility and ethical ethos that underpins Islamic
finance. Given the consequences of such reversals, it is key for the industry that
the approval process be extensively documented, formalised and open to inspec-
tion. One Shari’ah scholar in interview 3 expressed the view that Accounting and
Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) has taken some
steps in this regard with its institutional certifications of Shari’ah compliance, but
for a deeper, stable and more liquid market the concept needs to gain wider accep-
tance.
As depicted by Tables 9.3 and 9.4, several respondents recognised liquidity
and ALM risks as the most severe risks facing IFIs and stated that IFIs need to
factor liquidity more fully into risk management. Respondents believe that both
liquidity and ALM risks are strongly correlated. In the absence of a wide pool
of Shari’ah-compliant and sufficiently liquid investment vehicles (especially in
fixed income), IFIs find it difficult to manage their balance sheet from an ALM
perspective, especially with regard to liquidity and margin-rate risk. IFIs use
cash from deposits and short-term liquid assets to finance long-term liabilities.
As a result, the liability makeup affects their funding structures differently and
reflects an institution’s specific ALM policies. Most respondents therefore believe
that IFIs’ funding mix tends to be imbalanced, with the dominance of deposits,
PSIAs and equity making IFIs’ funding profile predominantly short-term at a
time when the maturity of their asset classes is widening. To mitigate nascent
maturity mismatches, some IFIs started issuing medium-term sukuk to lengthen
the maturity profile of their funding, but sukuk still represent a minor share of total
TABLE 9.3
Focused coding number 2 for Question 1
Liquidity risk
Interview 13
IFIs suffer from managing excessive liquidity, especially with regard
to the management of short-term liquidity and overnight liquidity
Interview 27
The liquidity/leverage trade-off for many IFIs is a double-edged sword
Interview 30
Liquidity management is structurally difficult at IFIs
Interview 33
Liquidity is one of the most critical issues for IFIs
TABLE 9.4
Focused coding number 3 for Question 1
ALM risk
Interview 23
Handling of asset–liability maturity mismatches is a challenge

--- Página 330 ---
314
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 9.5
Focused coding number 4 for Question 1
Concentration risk
Interview 9
Reliance on limited funding sources
Interview 12
Concentration risk is a time bomb that might bring down many IFIs,
particularly in the GCC
Interview 25
Real estate financing is one of IFIs’ preferred habitats hence creating
scary concentrations
Interview 29
High concentration risk made it necessary for IFIs to maintain strong
capitalisation
TABLE 9.6
Focused coding number 5 for Question 1
Reputational risk
Interview 18
Because Islamic banking is at the infancy stage of development, its
reputational risk is critical
liabilities. Subordinated sukuk and hybrid instruments have not been used yet;
these are more expensive funding sources and incentives to issue them are limited
given the relative abundance of capital in the region. IFIs are also increasingly
focusing on retail deposits to boost liquidity, due to the deposits’ sticky nature. As
a result, according to the responses given by the interviewees, the Islamic banking
industry is faced with a conundrum: its institutions maintain high concentrations
in current/short-term liabilities, but, at the same time, they are exposed to highly
profitable, but illiquid, long-term assets (e.g. property and infrastructure, and
sukuk), and they have limited access to long-term funding solutions.
As Table 9.4 shows, some respondents opined that IFIs tend to have a concen-
tration base of assets and/or deposits; they face high concentration by name and
sector, as well as high geographical concentration. This is inflated by the IFIs’ lim-
ited geographic reach, as most IFIs are domestic players and only very few have
material operations outside their home country. The limited scope of eligible assets
creates asset concentration risk. Non-deposit liabilities could have concentration
risk as well, due to the relatively small number of IFIs available to participate in the
inter-bank market. There is also a limited range of Shari’ah-compliant instruments
available for managing or transferring risks. Participants opined that the focus on
tangibles had led to increased property-related financings at IFIs, affected by the
relatively undiversified nature of the economies. As real estate markets are highly
volatile in the GCC, the concentration risk is magnified. The recent crash in the
property market has put several Islamic banks whose assets are heavily concen-
trated in real estate in dire straits.

--- Página 331 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
315
Reputational risk is the last among the top risks facing IFIs as identified by
interviewees. Some participants, principally conventional bankers, indicated that
reputational risk can have a material impact on the risk profile of an Islamic bank
because the industry is still at the infancy stage of development.
Finally, it is interesting to note that the analysis of Question 1 revealed that the
views of Islamic bankers, conventional bankers and rating agency analysts were
quite similar. Shari’ah scholars and researchers, on the other hand, had different
perceptions, which tend to be more academic in nature. Some respondents also
expressed the view that due to the nature of Islamic finance contracts, risks are
strongly bundled together.
Question 2 examines the difference in risk management perceptions in Islamic
banking versus conventional banking. The results obtained are summarised in
Tables 9.7 to 9.9.
TABLE 9.7
Results for Question 2
Question 2
Does the risk perception in Islamic banks differ from conventional
banking, and in what sense? Are Islamic banks riskier than their
conventional counterparts?
Focused Coding
1
There are specific challenges in the management of risks in Islamic
banks
2
Islamic banking, as it stands today, carries more risks than the
conventional model
Theme: Risk management for Islamic banks is more challenging than it is for
conventional banks. Theoretically, Islamic banks are safer than conventional banks.
Practically, the story is different.
TABLE 9.8
Focused coding number 1 for Question 2
There are specific challenges in the management of risks in Islamic banks
Interview 6
Risk management is not the same for conventional and Islamic banking
Interview 12
Risk management in Islamic banking is still evolving
Interview 21
There are distinguishable elements of an IFI’s risk profile that need to
be evaluated differently to those of a conventional bank
Interview 24
The Islamic financial model works on the basis of risk-sharing
Interview 27
Risks in IFIs must be assessed in an integrated manner
Interview 29
Risk management in Islamic banking is still below the desired level
Interview 31
Risk management for Islamic banks is far more of a complex issue
when compared to conventional banking
Interview 33
Since the risk management needs of Islamic banking are not being met
yet, the system is not functioning at its full potential

--- Página 332 ---
316
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 9.9
Focused coding number 2 for Question 2
Islamic banking, as it stands today, carries more risks than the conventional
model
Interview 12
Unfortunately, Islamic bankers made the industry more risky than
conventional banking
Interview 14
Many IFIs swapped basic PLS concepts for conventional-like products
Interview 18
Islamic banking suffers from weak risk management practices
Interview 26
Islamic banking in its current practice is riskier than conventional
banking
Interview 29
IFIs face a whole additional array of risks not faced by conventional
banks
As Table 9.8 shows, most interviewees believe that Islamic banking in its
current state can be riskier than conventional banking because of the additional
risk management and mitigation challenges and constraints the industry faces. As
stated by the interviewees, since the risk management needs of Islamic banking
are not yet being met, the system is not functioning at its full potential.
As depicted in Table 9.9, interviewees believe that no financial system is
perfect. Although Islamic banking by default enjoys better risk management
practices built into its principles, these principles tend to be ignored in favour of
mimicking conventional risk solutions. Islamic banking products display unique
features relating to credit, funding, liquidity and other risks that need to be consid-
ered and which have an impact on risk management. Moreover, most interviewees
asserted that IFIs paradoxically suffer from weak risk management practices. In
fact, IFIs face a number of challenges in terms of risk management. Many sukuk
TABLE 9.10
Results for Question 3
Question 3
Do you believe that Islamic banking products are structured
differently as compared to conventional banking products?
Focused Coding
1
Islamic banking transactions have inherent features that induce
financial stability
2
Many Islamic banking products aim to essentially replicate the
products and processes of the conventional system
Theme: Islamic finance products have special relationships between the contracting
parties; however, Islamic banking has so far been unable to escape the trappings of
conventional finance.

--- Página 333 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
317
TABLE 9.11
Focused coding number 1 for Question 3
Islamic banking transactions have inherent features that induce financial stability
Interview 8
The overarching principle of Islamic banking and finance (IBF)
products is that all forms of interest are forbidden
Interview 12
The PLS principle is a unique feature of Islamic finance
TABLE 9.12
Focused coding number 2 for Question 3
Many Islamic banking products aim to essentially replicate the products and
processes of the conventional system
Interview 14
If IFIs continue to mimic conventional products, they will weaken
their value proposition
Interview 17
Many Islamic banking products aim to essentially replicate the
products and processes of the conventional system
Interview 20
Theoretically yes, very different. In practice, they are very similar
Interview 30
IFIs are excessively replicating conventional financial instruments
are structured to resemble conventional bonds, meaning the risks of ownership
are transferred to the issuer rather than shared by the investors. Whereas risk
management is practiced widely in conventional financial markets, it is underde-
veloped in Islamic finance. This gives rise to an array of risks which are not well-
comprehended yet.
Most respondents agreed that Islamic banking products display unique
features, and that developing risk management tools and practices is one of the
biggest challenges for Islamic banks. This challenge also offers some opportu-
nities to develop unique solutions that do not suffer from the weaknesses in the
conventional banking model. In addition, respondents criticised adopting risk
models from the conventional banking practice or making minor adjustments
to best practices as this poses major challenges. Participants indicated that,
unfortunately, most IFIs closely mimic Western products, and hence IFIs are
being exposed to similar risks to their conventional counterparts. Practitioners
of Islamic finance to date have been mimicking conventional products. This
mimicking has resulted in a close correlation between the two systems. With the
absence of advanced risk management and mitigation tools, and with the bundling
of risks in Islamic finance contracts, Islamic banking ends up being more risky
than the conventional model.
In addition, participants indicated that through Shari’ah-compliant engineer-
ing most conventional contracts can be copied, at least conceptually. Some inter-
viewees opined that if IFIs continue to mimic conventional products, they will

--- Página 334 ---
318
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 9.13
Results for Question 4
Question 4
Do you think IFIs actually favour mark-up based contracts over
profit-sharing contracts? Why?
Focused Coding
1
IFIs want to share rewards without sharing risks
2
There is lack of appetite for risk-sharing assets
Theme: Fixed income contracts are widely used and the use of the PLS mode is
negligible.
weaken the uniqueness of their value proposition and the powerful nature of their
natural factors of differentiation. Participants recognise that Islamic banking might
find it difficult to innovate because it exists in a deeply-rooted conventional system.
However, they strongly recommended that Islamic banks should start innovat-
ing Shari’ah-based solutions because if the industry is not innovating authentic
products according to genuine Shari’ah principles, it might end up with the same
failures as conventional banking. Results for Question 4 are depicted in Table 9.13.
As depicted in Tables 9.14 and 9.15, interviewees, particularly Shari’ah
scholars and consultants, agree that while Islamic banking is asset-based and
centres on risk-sharing, in practice IFIs vary in terms of the level of risk-sharing.
TABLE 9.14
Focused coding number 1 for Question 4
IFIs want to share rewards without sharing risks
Interview 1
Risk-sharing is the exception rather than the rule
Interview 3
This ‘murabahah syndrome’ is a disgrace to the industry
Interview 24
Financial engineering in Islamic finance needs to focus on the
development of products that foster Shari’ah principles instead of
focusing only on the risk–return characteristics of the product
TABLE 9.15
Focused coding number 2 for Question 4
There is lack of appetite for risk-sharing assets
Interview 4
IFIs should engage on partnerships and equity-sharing financial
assets, but in practice the portion of such assets on the balance sheets
of Islamic banks is minimal
Interview 21
There is limited innovation, most of which is in the form of reverse
engineering where the objective is to replicate the behaviour and
risk/return profile of conventional products

--- Página 335 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
319
For example, on the funding side Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts (PSIAs)
are being replaced in several IFIs by time deposits based on reverse murabahah
transactions. These deposits do not have the risk-sharing features of PSIAs, since
the return is almost guaranteed. On the asset side, risk-sharing is the exception
rather than the rule. Most financing is in the form of murabahah or wakala,
making the IFIs’ activities similar to those of conventional banks. Interviewees
recommend that practitioners should not create instruments and investments
that are identical in substance to conventional ones by combining a redundant
succession of trades and labelling them with ‘new’ Arabic names. The emphasis
should be placed on innovation that encourages and favours particular types of
investment (such as more tangible risk-sharing ones) and funding that is closer to
Shari’ah principles. The tendency by some IFIs to blindly replicate and repackage
some exotic products of conventional finance through cosmetic changes to make
them Shari’ah-compliant should be curbed. Respondents expressed their worry
that some initiatives to design some forms of ‘Shari’ah-compliant’ subprime
instrument had been undertaken before the crisis happened – fortunately there
was enough wisdom among Shari’ah boards that these instruments did not really
see the light.
Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks
This section, through Questions 5, 6, 7 and 8, examines the suitability of the Basel
II and III standards for IFIs, compares capital requirement levels between Islamic
and conventional banks, and assesses the credibility of Basel II after it failed to
prevent one of the most damaging of financial crises. The results obtained are given
in Tables 9.16 to 9.28.
Interviewees had varying views about the suitability of Basel II and poten-
tially Basel III to Islamic banking. In general, respondents, particularly bankers
and rating agency analysts, agree that with a few amendments Basel II becomes
applicable to IFIs. The results of the focused coding analysis are summarised in
Tables 9.17 and 9.18.
TABLE 9.16
Results for Question 5
Question 5
How suitable are Basel II (and potentially Basel III) standards to
Islamic banking?
Focused Coding
1
Basel II can be applied to Islamic banks
2
IFIs need their own standards
Theme: With a few amendments Basel II becomes applicable to IFIs.

--- Página 336 ---
320
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 9.17
Focused coding number 1 for Question 5
Basel II (and potentially Basel III) standards can be applied to Islamic banks
Interview 13
IFSB Principles are difficult to implement, particularly in the West
Interview 17
Application of Basel II is a matter of adjusting the standards to the
needs of Islamic banks
Interview 21
Basel II can be applied to Islamic banks
Interview 30
Applying standards other than Basel II to IFIs will mean that it is
not a level playing field
TABLE 9.18
Focused coding number 2 for Question 5
IFIs need their own standards
Interview 2
The risk-sharing feature necessitates the use of different capital rules
Interview 6
Cannot apply conventional definition of capital to Islamic banking
Interview 9
IFSB principles on capital adequacy provide motivation for better risk
management
Interview 12
Basel II was drafted with conventional banking very much in mind
Interview 19
IFSB principles incentivise banks to be more transparent
As demonstrated by Table 9.18, Shari’ah scholars and consultants inter-
viewed shared the belief that conventional capital adequacy standards do not fully
understand and appreciate certain aspects of IFIs, principally the fiduciary aspect,
and that Basel II methodologies do not recognise the need for a different approach
to capital adequacy calculation. Another problem mentioned by Islamic bankers
related to the lack of ratings in IFIs and their corporate customers, and the fact that
there is no historical data to implement Basel II. However, as Table 9.17 depicts,
the majority of bankers and analysts interviewed believed that Basel II standards
could be applied to Islamic banking with a few amendments to accommodate its
unique model. They argue that, although there are some important differences
between Islamic and conventional banks that must be properly understood and
considered, these can be incorporated within the existing Basel framework. With
Basel II being widely applied consistently across the globe, some regulators
hesitate to apply bespoke capital rules to Islamic banks in order to ensure a level
playing field for all banks.
Question 6 examines the participants’ perception regarding the level of
capital reserves that IFIs should hold in comparison to capital held by conven-
tional banks. Looking at the theme in Table 9.19 and the respondents’ answers in

--- Página 337 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
321
TABLE 9.19
Results for Question 6
Question 6
Do Islamic banks need to reserve more or less capital than their
conventional peers?
Focused Coding
1
Less capital
2
More capital
Theme: IFIs are exposed to higher risks, thus should reserve more capital.
TABLE 9.20
Focused coding number 1 for Question 6
Less capital
Interview 1
If IFIs genuinely apply Shari’ah principles, they will require much
lower capital reserves than they currently do
Interview 2
The risk-sharing feature necessitates the use of different capital rules.
The better the disclosure and risk-sharing the Islamic bank applies,
the lower capital it needs to reserve
Interview 23
If PSIAs absorb losses, IFIs should keep less capital aside
TABLE 9.21
Focused coding number 2 for Question 6
More capital
Interview 8
IFIs have historically been keeping higher capital buffers anyway
Interview 11
IFIs have recently accumulated more capital buffers than their
conventional peers due to rising non-performing loans
Interview 21
IFIs are more risky than conventional banks, thus should reserve more
capital
Interview 25
Due to their nature of operations, IFIS should reserve more capital
Tables 9.20 and 9.21, it is evident that most interviewees believe that IFIs should
hold higher capital levels than their conventional counterparts because the Islamic
banking business model in its current state carries more risks.
In theory, the risk-sharing principles inherent in Islamic banking should make
IFIs less vulnerable to economic shocks and thus IFIs should need to reserve less
capital than their conventional peers as they could ‘pass through’ economic losses
to PSIAs. This is the view expressed by some participants, such as Shari’ah schol-
ars and Middle Eastern consultants, as Table 9.20 shows. Unfortunately, the theory
is a long way from fact in the current practice, as argued by the participants’ views

--- Página 338 ---
322
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
shown in Table 9.21. This submerges the inherent stability within IFIs, rendering
them riskier than conventional banks, and hence requiring higher capital buffers.
In addition, several bankers and consultants interviewed revealed that many IFIs
do not have an internal performance management approach to measure the cost
of liquidity and capital in their business decisions. This can lead to suboptimal
choices being made by management teams. IFIs thus need to change how they
measure performance by taking into consideration actual cost of liquidity and
capital. By adjusting for true cost of liquidity and capital, the profitability pic-
ture can change considerably. As indicated by the respondent from interview 11,
capital levels among IFIs have increased compared to prior years and are at lev-
els much higher than their global peers. However, that extra capital buffer should
not be taken for granted and IFIs need to be mindful of rising non-performing
loans. Moreover, some interviewees warned that, with the tightening of new Basel
III capital standards, IFIs have to pay greater attention to capital management as
profitability will be impacted.
It is interesting to note that despite a general lack of absolute clarity about
Basel III and its potential impact on IFIs, as indicated by Table 9.22, most inter-
viewees agreed that Basel III is a fact that is here to stay. There is also a general
belief among respondents that although Basel III is more demanding than Basel II
with regard to addressing systemic risk, it may not be the last of the Basel series.
This is mainly because risk is inherent in the complex global financial markets of
increasing sophistication. Participants were generally divided among three groups,
as summarised by Tables 9.23 to 9.25. The general theme agreed upon by most
interviewees is that Basel III will affect all banks; however, its impact on conven-
tional banking will be higher than on Islamic banking.
The first group believed that the Basel III new regulatory standards are still
fresh and have a prolonged implementation timeline. No clear idea has yet been
TABLE 9.22
Results for Question 7
Question 7
What impact will Basel III have on Islamic banks? Do the Basel III
standards consider Islamic banking?
Focused Coding
1
Too early to judge
2
Basel III will have bigger impact on conventional banks due to their
business models
3
Basel III will impact all banks
Theme: Basel III will affect all banks, however, its impact on conventional banking
will be higher than on Islamic banking.

--- Página 339 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
323
TABLE 9.23
Focused Coding Number 1 for Question 7
Too early to judge
Interview 28
The ink is barely dry on the Basel III Accord
Interview 32
Basel III has an extended implementation period making its impact
relatively irrelevant for the time being
formed of their potential effects on IFIs. This group consists mainly of analysts
at rating agencies and consultants.
Table 9.24 summarises the views of the second group of interviewees,
which argued that the counter-cyclical capital buffer concept introduced by Basel
III (as opposed to Basel II, which has been widely criticised for encouraging
pro-cyclicality) has been at the heart of Islamic banking via profit and loss sharing
(PLS) financing. IFIs will be less impacted by Basel III because of smaller market
and counterparty risk exposures and lower levels of debt. They are expected to
meet the more stringent requirements without raising additional capital. This
group was dominated by Islamic bankers.
The third group of participants, comprising of consultants and solicitors,
opined that the tightening of capital, leverage and liquidity requirements will
affect all banks, Islamic and non-Islamic alike, while the definition of capital and
TABLE 9.24
Focused coding number 2 for Question 7
Basel III will have a bigger impact on conventional banks due to their business
models
Interview 12
Islamic banks have been addressing procyclicality issues way before
Basel III proposals
Interview 13
Most IFIs are capital rich and have liquidity buffers, therefore the
newly proposed capital and liquidity ratios will have minimal effect
TABLE 9.25
Focused coding number 3 for Question 7
Basel III will impact all banks
Interview 5
The increased risk-weighting for assets across the board will affect IFIs
Interview 21
Common equity will be squeezed much harder
Interview 23
Any new regulation will affect all banks, whether Islamic or
conventional

--- Página 340 ---
324
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
the deductions in capital calculations are less likely to affect IFIs as their capital
structures tend to comprise mainly core Tier 1 capital.
Question 8 aims to get the interviewees’ perceptions of the failure of Basel II
to prevent the recent crisis and of whether the newly proposed Basel III standards
will help to prevent similar crises. Despite divergence among the participants’
views, the theme as shown in Table 9.26 is that the shortcomings in Basel II
are definitely addressed in Basel III. Participants expressed their doubt that
Basel III will succeed in preventing another major crisis because crises are part
of business cycles.
There was unarguably divergence among respondents regarding the question
on the potential capacity of Basel III to prevent a major crisis such as the recent
TABLE 9.26
Results for Question 8
Question 8
Are the Basel III new regulatory standards more likely to prevent
a major crisis like the recent one? Did Basel II fail in preventing
the crisis?
Focused Coding
1
Failings of Basel II needed to be addressed, Basel III addresses those
issues
2
The soundness of Basel III is mutually linked to powerful regulatory
and economic reinforcements
Theme: Shortcomings in Basel II are definitely addressed in Basel III.
TABLE 9.27
Focused coding number 1 for Question 8
Failings of Basel II needed to be addressed, Basel III addresses those issues
Interview 12
Basel II totally failed to prevent the crisis
Interview 25
Basel II got it wrong on different fronts: procyclicality, liquidity, stress-
testing, to name a few
TABLE 9.28
Focused coding number 2 for Question 8
The soundness of Basel III is mutually linked to powerful regulatory and
economic reinforcements
Interview 4
Basel III is intended to promote a more resilient banking sector and
eliminate systemic risk, but so was Basel II
Interview 14
Don’t blame Basel II, blame the system based on greed and lack of
morals
Interview 16
Basel II is correct in principle but wrong in implementation

--- Página 341 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
325
one and whether Basel II had failed in preventing the crisis. As the results
in Table 9.26 show, those in the West are focusing on the need for increased
buffers for both capital and liquidity, while those in the East are focusing on
comprehensive coverage of risk management, enhanced stress-testing and the
need for risk and capital management to align and be a core part of a bank’s
strategy. In general both camps agree that supervisory discretion will influence
detailed implementation and leave scope for some jurisdictions to apply a more
rigid interpretation of Basel III than elsewhere. Political issues and the debate
around the implementation and operation of supervisory challenges mean ongoing
fear of an uneven playing field. If different jurisdictions implement Basel III in
different ways, issues seen under Basel I and Basel II with respect to international
regulatory arbitrage may continue to disrupt the overall stability of the financial
system. Moreover, compared with the implementation of Basel II, this enhanced
level of dynamism, complexity and interdependency within the global regulatory
landscape will add significant challenges to the implementation of Basel III.
A number of respondents, particularly researchers and consultants, believe
that the Basel III proposals are unlikely to be the last word on reforms of the
banking industry following the credit crunch. Interviewees asserted that Basel III
is sometimes sold as the solution to the outstanding issues left by Basel I and II.
Some stated that while history does not repeat, it sure does show similarities, and
it is very unlikely that Basel III will be the answer to all banking problems. Banks
must therefore retain flexibility to accommodate years of fine tuning and future
reforms.
During the current tumultuous economic times, a higher capital buffer will
generally reduce volatility and improve the intrinsic financial strength of banks.
Increased capital requirements, increased cost of funding, and the need to reor-
ganise and deal with regulatory reform will put pressure on margins and operating
capacity. Investor returns will decrease at a time when banks need to encourage
enhanced investment to rebuild and restore buffers. This will drive banks to go up
the risk curve to make up for lost profitability.
Islamic Banking and the Global Credit Crisis
A lot has been said about Islamic finance being resilient in the wake of the global
financial crisis, but once the dust of the financial crisis settled, it has become clear
that everything is not necessarily well in Islamic finance. The assumption at one
point early in the crisis was that Islamic banking would be totally unaffected and
would sail through the crisis. However, the crisis has flushed out the false premise
that Islamic banking is disconnected from conventional banking, and that it is
immune to economic crises.
Questions 9 and 10 aim to explore the market feedback regarding the
long-debated issue of whether IFIs are recession proof. Is Islamic banking

--- Página 342 ---
326
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
actually more resilient than conventional banking? Could the crisis have occurred
under an Islamic banking system? The results of the focused coding analysis are
presented as follows. Results for Question 9 are illustrated in Table 9.29, while
Tables 9.30 and 9.31 provide the Focused Coding analysis for Question 9. Results
for Question 10 are depicted in Table 9.32, while Tables 9.33 to 9.35 provide the
Focused Coding analysis for Question 10.
TABLE 9.29
Results for Question 9
Question 9
There is much debate about the resilience of Islamic banking against
the financial crisis. Do you think that Islamic banking has really
been resilient to the crisis, or does it suffer from the same flaws of
conventional banking?
Focused Coding
1
IFIs were not caught by toxic assets as Shari’ah prohibits interest
2
Islamic banking had similar problems to conventional banking
Theme: IFIs have shown some resilience but they are not risk immune.
TABLE 9.30
Focused coding number 1 for Question 9
IFIs were not caught by toxic assets as Shari’ah prohibits interest
Interview 17
Islamic banks have been lucky so far
Interview 23
IFIs have displayed strong resilience
TABLE 9.31
Focused coding number 2 for Question 9
Islamic banking had similar problems to conventional banking
Interview 4
To some extent Islamic lenders were not applying best practices and
that may have led to the large amount of non-performing loans and
others
Interview 13
Lack of liquidity is squeezing sukuk issuance
Interview 21
IFIs are part of the globalised financial system – they are not immune
from the credit crisis
Interview 25
IFIs have all been penalised by their investment portfolios
Interview 26
The industry faced its greatest ever test. Some IFIs came close to
collapse
Interview 33
IFIs have always displayed funding imbalances, but this worsened as
the crisis reached its peak

--- Página 343 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
327
TABLE 9.32
Results for Question 10
Question 10
Could the recent crisis have occurred under an Islamic banking
system? Will the industry gain confidence after the current
financial crisis?
Focused Coding
1
The crisis served as a wake-up call for Islamic banks
2
The crisis had a less severe impact on Islamic banking
3
The crisis provides opportunity for IFIs
Theme: Even if Islamic finance had been prevailing, in its current state the crisis could
have happened, but at a less severe level. Paradoxically, the reputation of Islamic
banking has benefited from the crisis.
TABLE 9.33
Focused coding number 1 for Question 10
The crisis served as a wake-up call for Islamic banks
Interview 1
Allowed Islamic banking some time for reflection
Interview 3
In a way the crisis is a blessing in disguise for Islamic banking because
IFIs so far have been following a close mimicry of Western products
Interview 32
The shake-out resulting from the crisis has been good for the Islamic
finance market
As depicted in Table 9.33, respondents agreed that the credit crisis has allowed
the Islamic banking industry some time for reflection. They gave examples of a
number of renowned players in the management of Islamic funds, such as The
Investment Dar (TID) and Global Investment House (GIH), that suffered major
losses during the crisis and have become technically insolvent. Some IFIs had to
undertake a painful restructuring process, and the legal battles are still to be fought.
The global sukuk market is seeing smaller issuance and increasing defaults, led by
the bankruptcy of the US-based sukuk issuer East Cameron Gas, followed by the
Al Gosaibi and Saad Groups of Saudi Arabia.
Most interviewees agree that IFIs should therefore ensure that they do not
overlook the lessons to be learnt from the financial crisis. As shown in Table 9.35,
respondents believe that since the global economy is still recovering and the
growth rate is much slower, IFIs should take this opportunity to clean up the
house and tighten up the loose ends.
Interviewees argued that when the financial crisis erupted in mid-2007, the
Islamic finance industry remained relatively healthy and insulated, and recorded
robust performance. Some commentators wrongly labelled Islamic finance as a

--- Página 344 ---
328
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 9.34
Focused coding number 2 for Question 10
The crisis had less severe impact on Islamic banking
Interview 16
Although IFIs have been more resilient, the shift in the environment
did negatively affect some of them
Interview 20
The crisis highlighted additional risks that IFIs need to carefully
understand and mitigate
Interview 24
Islamic banking can also face systemic failure
Interview 27
Islamic banks do not operate in isolation
TABLE 9.35
Focused coding number 3 for Question 10
Crisis provides opportunity for IFIs
Interview 2
Perceived now as more stable as it has an anti-speculation bent to it
Interview 7
The industry has come out stronger from the global crisis and learnt
good lessons
Interview 11
Will emerge stronger from the crisis, provided some conditions are met
Interview 14
IFIs’ reputation has benefited from the crisis
Interview 17
IFIs have been lucky so far, and they will be winners after the crisis
Interview 23
Despite flaws in the industry, the crisis has strengthened Islamic
banking
Interview 29
The ideals of Islamic finance are receiving more attention in the crisis
‘risk-free’ sector. However, the significant defaults of TID and Gulf Finance House
(GFH) since early 2009 and the growing difficulties of the rest of the Islamic
investment banking community makes this assessment dubious, as the structural
weaknesses of the Islamic financial industry started to become more obvious.
Responses depicted in Table 9.35 reflect that the crisis was a unique opportunity
for the industry to prove that it had the capacity and ability to react to and absorb
shocks, although this did not apply to all its sub-segments. Some interviewees
from rating agencies explained that, while the commercial banking sector seems
to have emerged from the crisis relatively unscathed, the investment banking
sector could not have been more different, as it suffered a very sudden and sharp
dip in performance as losses mounted. And yet, until 2007, IFIs were portrayed
by market participants as having significant potential, benefiting from cheap
funding, high liquidity, exceptional profits and robust capitalisation. At the time,
the combination of these four factors led them to pursue investments in riskier
markets and asset classes – such as private equity, infrastructure or real estate,

--- Página 345 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
329
mostly in emerging markets ranging from the Maghreb to Southeast Asia. Some
business was also booked in the private equity markets in Europe and the US.
While GFH focused more on infrastructure, Arcapita invested heavily in private
equity, and both were eager to improve their asset-management capabilities.
Moreover, some other Shari’ah-compliant investment banks were beginning to
discover the merits of unfunded business lines. Respondents gave the examples
of Liquidity Management House (LMH, the investment banking subsidiary of
leading Kuwait Finance House) and Al Rajhi Capital, which further enhanced
their advisory and structuring services, until they eventually became significant
players in the GCC’s debt and capital markets. However, when the region’s
economy started to fracture under the stresses of the global liquidity drought,
the pro-cyclical nature of IFIs became more pronounced. The illiquid nature of
their investments contributed to rapid asset-value decreases at a time when their
wholesale and short-term funding features were rapidly damaging their liquidity
profile. This structural feature of IFIs’ ALM – which was once a benefit when
ample liquidity was chasing too few assets – started to turn negative when too
many impaired assets were available to serve massive liquidity withdrawals.
Some interviewees explained that lower volumes, shrinking margins and dete-
riorating asset quality will all weigh on IFIs’ profitability and ultimately their cap-
italisation. However, the impact is more manageable than for conventional banks.
Fortunately, IFIs have been very profitable in the past and had therefore accumu-
lated large amounts of capital, making them capable of absorbing these sorts of
shocks. Strangely enough, IFIs’ reputation has generally benefited from the crisis
as it has exposed the weakness of a debt-based financial system. It is therefore the
most fortunate time for Islamic banking to re-emphasise its equity-based approach.
Interviewees think that this will help the industry to expand not only in the Muslim
world but also in the West.
Some researchers interviewed stated that this is not the first time IFIs were
tested with a systemic crisis, although previous crises were all on a regional scale.
However, the recent crisis, with its unprecedented scale and scope, is the first
global crisis to hit Islamic finance. The experiences of Kuwait Finance House in
surviving the Kuwait Souq al-Manakh crisis in 1982, of Bank Islam in navigating
the Asian financial crisis in 1997–1998, and of a Turkish participation (Islamic)
bank in coming out of the economic crisis (2000–2001) should all convey a clear
message that Islamic finance does have some inherent qualities that contribute
to its resilience. Most interviewees, including non-Islamic bankers, actually see
the Islamic financial industry emerging stronger from the crisis, provided some
conditions are met as shown in Table 9.35.
In general, most interviewees opined that IFIs will probably be the big win-
ners when the crisis ends. As a sub-set of ethical finance, IFIs are now considered

--- Página 346 ---
330
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
not so much niche businesses standing at the margins, but rather as representa-
tives of a credible, viable and sustainable alternative business model for sound,
ethical and socially responsible banking. Many interviewees believe that main-
stream finance has moved too far into excess leverage, meaningless innovation
and value-destroying investments and therefore IFIs will undoubtedly find their
reputations strengthened.
Risk Mitigation in Islamic Banking
Risk mitigation is currently one of the most contentious issues in Islamic banking.
The unique nature of risks faced by Islamic banks, combined with the restrictions
added by Shari’ah, makes risk mitigation for Islamic banks a difficult and complex
process. There are risks that Islamic banks, like their conventional counterparts,
can manage and control through appropriate risk policies and controls that do not
conflict with the Shari’ah principles. However, there are other risks that banks
cannot eliminate and that can be reduced only by transferring to or selling those
risks in well-defined markets. These risks can generate unexpected losses that need
capital insulation, and hedging can help to restrict the impact of unexpected loss.
In this section of the interview analysis, the participants’ opinions and perceptions
were sought regarding risk mitigation in Islamic banking. Looking at the theme in
Table 9.36 and the respondents’ answers in Tables 9.37 and 9.38 shows that risk
mitigation has become a must in Islamic banking, provided that it is used merely
for hedging and not for speculation.
Respondents almost unanimously agreed that the unique nature of risks faced
by IFIs, combined with the restrictions added by Shari’ah, make risk mitigation
for IFIs a difficult and complex process. However, there was clear disparity among
respondents regarding the applicability of Shari’ah-compliant hedging solutions.
Although derivatives were originally designed to manage or mitigate risks, they
TABLE 9.36
Results for Question 11
Question 11
What do you think about risk mitigation in Islamic banking?
Is it Shari’ah-compliant? How important is risk mitigation to
the industry?
Focused Coding
1
Could be used for hedging purposes only and not for speculative
trading activities
2
Hedging is urgently needed by IFIs
Theme: Risk mitigation tools highly demanded among IFIs but still there is a long way
to go.

--- Página 347 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
331
TABLE 9.37
Focused coding number 1 for Question 11
Could be used for hedging purposes only and not for speculative trading activities
Interview 1
Should be used solely for hedging and not speculation
Interview 2
The necessities permit forbiddance, but also the necessities are
determined based on the degree of necessity
Interview 22
Many IFIs already use Islamic derivatives but they call them
something else because Shari’ah scholars don’t like the word
‘derivatives’
Interview 33
IFIs have a limited range of Shari’ah-compliant instruments for risk
transfer
TABLE 9.38
Focused coding number 2 for Question 11
Hedging is urgently needed by IFIs
Interview 8
Not having hedging tools puts Islamic banks at competitive
disadvantage
Interview 14
Without proper hedging approaches at our disposal, it feels like trying
to clap with one hand
Interview 20
Islamic banking is still in its infancy in terms of hedging solutions
Interview 25
Islamic banking is not mature enough to apply existing conventional
market risk mitigation and hedging techniques
Interview 27
Today lack of risk-transfer techniques is described as Islamic finance’s
Achilles heel
Interview 29
Islamic banks need to move quickly toward Shari’ah-compliant
hedging solutions
Interview 30
There is growing demand for Shari’ah-compliant hedging products
have been mutated to trade risks. Some respondents did not have a clear demarca-
tion between the two. They stated that before the crisis, Islamic finance had been
criticised because it could not freely hedge its risks using derivatives instruments.
Today, this feature has been proven to be truly a blessing in disguise. In addition,
the bankers interviewed asserted that even with the Shari’ah-approved structures,
Islamic hedging currently costs much more than normal conventional hedging; it
is documentation intensive and banks have to do dual murabahahs, rather than a
single standardised transaction. Shari’ah-compliant tools are available; they need
to be signed and accepted quicker and cheaper.
In general, most interviews reveal that there is growing demand for hedging
and Shari’ah-compliant derivatives, which should be used merely for hedging and

--- Página 348 ---
332
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
not speculation. Risk mitigation within Islamic banking is still to a large extent a
grey area and work in progress.
The Dichotomy Between the Theory and Practice
of Islamic Banking
This section examines the proposition that Islamic banking has been diverting from
its roots by mimicking conventional banks. The theme in Table 9.39 indicates that
although, in theory, the Islamic financial system is more resilient to economic
shocks than the debunked Wall Street model, unfortunately the theory is a long
way from fact in Islamic banking’s current financial practice. The findings from
the analysis through focused coding are presented in the following tables.
As Tables 9.40 and 9.41 show, most interviewees criticised Islamic banking
for trying to ‘shoe-horn’ Shari’ah principles into conventional product structures;
where Islamic products replicate conventional products they are being exposed to
the same risks. IFIs are also shying away from being sufficiently socially respon-
sible. A number of respondents are of the view that some IFIs deviated to a great
extent from the fundamental basis of Islamic finance; they have succumbed to
TABLE 9.39
Results for Question 12
Question 12
How Shari’ah-compliant is Islamic banking within its current
practice? Do you believe that Islamic banks need to reform in
order to be successful?
Focused Coding
1
Mimicking conventional became the norm
2
IFIs are in a constant struggle to reconcile faith and finance
Theme: Islamic banking has long been deviating from true Shari’ah principles.
TABLE 9.40
Focused coding number 1 for Question 12
Mimicking conventional became the norm
Interview 2
With sorrow there is a tendency to mimic everything that is offered by
traditional banks
Interview 13
They are still heading in the same direction as conventional banks
Interview 21
Customers are fed up with the market imitating conventional banking
Interview 27
There is lots of form-over-substance compliance in Islamic banking
Interview 33
Big difference between practice and principles

--- Página 349 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
333
TABLE 9.41
Focused coding number 2 for Question 12
IFIs are in a constant struggle to reconcile faith and finance
Interview 5
It is not fair to claim that current Islamic banking is merely a disguised
version of the conventional substance
Interview 10
IFIs must resolve inner tensions
Interview 16
Everything that is not forbidden in the Holy Quran is ok
Interview 31
You can create and invest in very risky assets and still be
Shari’ah-compliant
the influence of conventional banking. Shari’ah scholars interviewed therefore
emphasised that there is an internal logic to Shari’ah principles, which IFIs will
see only if they stop trying to duplicate conventional structures.
The Next Chapter in Islamic Banking
In this last part of the interview analysis, the participants’ opinions and per-
ceptions were sought on the future of IBF with a particular focus on risk
management-related issues. The theme in Table 9.42 indicates that various
strategies have been suggested by interviewees in order to achieve profitable
growth and to enhance IFIs’ competitiveness. However, participants asserted that
while asset growth is important, addressing risk issues needs to be in place to
support sustainable growth. Therefore, strategic focus needs to be timed, with
risk management being implemented first, followed by growth. The findings from
the analysis through focused coding are presented in Tables 9.43 to 9.46.
TABLE 9.42
Results for Question 13
Question 13
What strategies should Islamic banks focus on over the coming
decade? What do you believe are the catalysts for the growth of
Islamic banking?
Focused Coding
1
Enhanced risk management and mitigation
2
Diversification
3
Back to roots
4
Consolidation
Theme: Various strategies suggested. One thing most sides agreed on is the need for
enhanced risk management and a return to Shari’ah principles.

--- Página 350 ---
334
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
TABLE 9.43
Focused coding number 1 for Question 13
Enhanced risk management and mitigation
Interview 9
The industry urgently needs more advanced risk management
architecture
Interview 11
Think capital, think risk . . . the risk culture must change and must be
embedded institutionally
Interview 13
Enhance risk management practices and culture
Interview 20
Without proper risk mitigation, I can’t see how Islamic banking will be
able to compete in a global competitive environment
Interview 28
Clearly there is substantial room for improvement in risk management
Interview 29
IFIs must manage the funding gap carefully
TABLE 9.44
Focused coding number 2 for Question 13
Diversification
Interview 25
Concentration kills; IFIs must diversify
Interview 27
Diversification: geographically and operationally
TABLE 9.45
Focused coding number 3 for Question 13
Back to roots
Interview 4
Back to basics and core values
Interview 19
Innovate do not replicate
TABLE 9.46
Focused coding number 4 for Question 13
Consolidation
Interview 18
Cross-border consolidation
Interview 21
Mergers and acquisitions; there are far too many small Islamic banks
As the findings in Tables 9.42 depict, recommendations given in terms of
strategies that Islamic banks should focus on over the coming decade as catalysts
for the growth of Islamic banking are numerous and diverse. Many challenges still
lie ahead, as is clear from the interviews. However, the ongoing improvements
in banks’ risk management and mitigation techniques and prudential frameworks
for Shari’ah-compliant banking give reasonable hope that the Islamic banking
industry’s growth will contribute positively to broader financial and economic

--- Página 351 ---
Exploring Perceptions of Risk and Risk Management Practices in Islamic Banking
335
stability, especially after the financial crisis has proved Islamic finance to be a more
ethical and sustainable banking alternative than the debunked Wall Street model.
In particular, IFIs need to improve their liquidity management and diversify
their activities from what is mostly a real estate and ‘vanilla’ lending play, to offer
a comprehensive service suite including advanced treasury services, innovative
asset-management and securitisation services. This will allow them to address the
needs of underserved market segments such as sovereign wealth funds and private
wealth clients. The bankers interviewed recommended that there is also a lot to be
done in trade finance, which used to be the staple of Islamic finance but for many
years has been unfashionable. The corporate finance and liability management
areas are also open for huge expansion. IFIs should also exploit consolidation in
order to benefit from economies of scale as well as enhancement of scope. Both
approaches offer diversification benefits.
CONCLUSION
The objective of this chapter is to analyse the semi-structured interviews conducted
with Islamic banking professionals. The responses of the interviewees were first
individually recorded and later coded and the results of the coded answers pre-
sented in a table. The interview was then organised into various topics to simplify
the analysis of the responses given by the interviewees.
As regards the findings, interviewees indicated that the IFIs’ unsound risk
management architecture is reflected by their concentration risks, poor sector allo-
cation, imprudent liquidity management and imbalanced ALM. In addition, the
interviews revealed that the Shari’ah-non-compliance risk is a significant risk fac-
ing IFIs. It is also noticeable that both Islamic and non-Islamic bankers had similar
risk perceptions about risk management in Islamic banking.
In addition, the interview findings indicate that Islamic banking in its cur-
rent state can be riskier than conventional banking because of the additional risk
management and mitigation challenges and constraints the industry faces. As the
participants stated, there are several risk management areas where improvement
can be made to promote and enhance the functioning of IFIs. Empirical evidence
also indicates that many Islamic banking products aim to essentially replicate
the products and processes of the conventional system. Most IFIs prefer mark-up
based contracts and shy away from profit-sharing contracts that they perceive as
more risky.
Interviewees had varying views about the suitability of Basel II and poten-
tially Basel III to Islamic banking and whether IFIs should keep higher or lower
capital requirements than their conventional peers. In general, respondents, par-
ticularly bankers and rating agency analysts, agree that with a few amendments,

--- Página 352 ---
336
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Basel II becomes applicable to IFIs, and that IFIs should hold higher capital levels
than their conventional counterparts because the Islamic banking business model
in its current state carries more risks. It is interesting to note that, despite a gen-
eral lack of absolute clarity about Basel III and its potential impact on IFIs, most
interviewees agreed that Basel III is a fact that is here to stay.
Furthermore, most interviewees believe that although IFIs have been more
resilient to the ongoing crisis than their conventional counterparts, the shift in the
environment did negatively affect some of them. Since Islamic finance is not an
island, it has suffered from the liquidity drought, to the point where a few IFIs have
defaulted, but as an industry it now has a track record of resilience, which had not
been tested before. While the global crisis gave Islamic banking an opportunity to
prove its resilience, it also highlighted the need to address important challenges.
The crisis has led to greater recognition of the importance of liquidity risks, and
the need for more advanced risk management and mitigation.
Interviewees are also of the view that IFIs will not achieve their objectives
by simply mimicking conventional products. While the ideals of Islamic finance
offer some compelling ideas, the reality is that much of Islamic finance today is
focused on replicating the conventional system.
Finally, the interviewees almost unanimously agree that there is now an oppor-
tunity for Islamic banking to thrive as it has the potential to contribute to a more
stable economy. However, in its current form, Islamic banking has little to offer in
terms of long-lasting solutions and sustainable financing, as the solution ultimately
has to be a moral, not a material one. Islamic banking needs to aim for a truly alter-
native vision based on the ethical and moral safeguards within authentic Islamic
concepts, together with improving risk management and mitigation techniques,
enhancing liquidity management and reducing concentrations.
The empirical findings in this chapter provide efficient responses to the
research questions and objectives. The findings of the interview analysis having
been presented, Chapter 10 combines these findings with the quantitative findings
from the questionnaire data analysis in an integrated manner within the context
of the existing literature in order to provide a basis for an overall conclusion.

--- Página 353 ---
CHAPTER10
Contextualising the Findings
An Interpretative Discussion
T
he discussion in this chapter is based on the results of the conceptual aspects of
the research that were gained from the literature review and from data collected
and analysed in order to investigate risk management issues in Islamic banking.
The available studies on similar subjects are mostly theoretical in nature, consid-
ering primary data research only. The results of the current study will therefore fill
a significant gap in current scholarship by providing vital empirical information
about risk management in Islamic banking.
In the last three chapters, Chapters 7, 8 and 9, the findings of the quantitative
and qualitative data analysis were presented. This chapter discusses the implica-
tions of the findings in relation to the existing body of knowledge in the field.
It aims to achieve the objective of giving greater meaning to the results through
an interpretative method. The aim of this chapter, hence, is to combine the main
results of the empirical chapters so as to conduct an integrated discussion of the
hypotheses identified earlier, whereby it will be possible to highlight the contribu-
tion of this study.
For the purpose of clarity and to provide a more clearly structured approach
to discussion, the flow of this chapter corresponds to the research hypotheses
and to the thematic structure used in the questionnaire and interviews. Thus, the
main discussion of the chapter is divided into 10 main sections: Risk Percep-
tion in Islamic Banking; Islamic Finance Contracts; Additional Risk Issues Facing
IFIs; Capital Adequacy for Islamic Banks; Islamic Banking and the Global Credit
Crisis; Risk Management and Reporting; Risk Measurement; Risk Mitigation;
Islamic Banking in Practice; and, finally, The Future of Islamic Banking.
RISK PERCEPTION IN ISLAMIC BANKING
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on the overall risks faced by Islamic banks by responding to the hypotheses
set in advance.
337

--- Página 354 ---
338
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Hypothesis 1: The main risks facing Islamic banks are reputational risk,
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk, asset–liability management (ALM) risk,
liquidity risk and concentration risk.
In order to identify the main risks facing Islamic financial institutions (IFIs),
the findings from the questionnaire and interview analyses were examined side by
side, in addition to searching the existing literature review.
The null hypothesis is accepted and the alternative hypothesis is rejected by
both quantitative and qualitative analyses.
The descriptive statistics for the entire sample, as in Table 7.5, show that the
top five risks facing IFIs according to mean ranking are: liquidity, ALM, reputa-
tional, concentration and credit risks. Shari’ah-non-compliance risk followed with
a close mean rank of 3.71, while market risk was considered the least risky (2.72).
Of note is the proximity of mean values among the top risks.
These findings are no surprise, as liquidity management is far from an easy
task for IFIs; it is structurally more challenging for IFIs because there is still a
significant shortage of liquid instruments, despite the efforts of the various central
banks to provide a variety in which Islamic banks can place their surplus cash. In
fact, Tamweel and Amlak would have gone insolvent if not for government help.
As discussed in Chapter 3, there have been some efforts to improve liquidity man-
agement and to develop an Islamic capital market and tradable Islamic financial
instruments, but to date these have been limited.
ALM and liquidity risks are closely correlated, as the former is basically the
practice of managing risks that arise due to mismatches between the assets and
liabilities of a bank. For IFIs, the limited range of possible funding sources leads
to concentrated liabilities, imbalanced funding mixes and stretched capital man-
agement strategies. Therefore, IFIs’ funding bands usually remain imbalanced and
IFIs tend to fill the gaps with capital. However, capital is a very expensive way of
funding. This is why Islamic banks, particularly in the Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC), engage in higher risk/high yield transactions to make up for the expensive
funding via capital and consequently keep shareholders satisfied with high returns.
Those IFIs forced themselves, unintentionally, up the risk curve instead of diver-
sifying their risks. This makes the balance sheet of Islamic banks quite polarised,
with high real estate assets, which led to Islamic banks having a high concentration
risk, on both sides of the balance sheet. A typical balance sheet structure of many
IFIs displays high exposure to properties on the assets side and limited funding
sources with high reliance on short-term liabilities and capital on the other side.
This is a very unfavourable funding continuum, which has led IFIs into a vicious
circle of risks.
Moreover, IFIs tend to have a concentration base of assets and/or deposits;
they face high concentration by name and sector, as well as high geograph-
ical concentration. The limited scope of eligible asset classes creates asset

--- Página 355 ---
Contextualising the Findings
339
concentration risk. Focus on tangibles had led to increased property-related
financings at IFIs, affected by the relatively undiversified nature of the economies.
As real estate markets are highly volatile in the GCC, the concentration risk
is magnified because concentrations are even more problematic when they are
biased toward high-risk sectors. High lending concentrations to construction and
real estate companies are common for many IFIs. Moreover, the construction
and real estate sectors are highly cyclical, require high capital-intensity, and
typically have a long production cycle, leaving IFIs with high exposures to this
sector and vulnerable to shifts in the market environment. According to Smith
(2010), the combined exposure to the real estate and construction sector is in
some cases higher than 100% of Tier 1 capital for Islamic banks, particularly in
the GCC.
Respondents also identified credit risk as being among the top risks that face
IFIs. Traditionally, a large part of a bank’s profit came from lending businesses.
Also, the majority of bank losses were related to this aspect of risk management;
hence the focus was primarily on credit risk. Credit risk management for IFIs is
further complicated by a number of factors such as contractual complications with
Islamic banking products creating additional credit risks; difficulty of foreclosure;
and lack of credit assessment models, track record, robust ratings, mitigation tech-
niques, etc.
Furthermore, reputational risk is critically important for Islamic banking, as a
growing industry that is built on trust and transparency. Finally, Shari’ah compli-
ance is inherently and systemically significant to Islamic banking. Any divergence
from Shari’ah principles exposes the IFI to a wide range of risks at different levels
as discussed in previous chapters.
Of note is the political risk. Under Question 8 of the questionnaire, only two
respondents added political and country risks as extra risks facing IFIs. How-
ever, the lesson from the recent political unrest and revolutions in the Middle
East is that political risk – which was previously largely ignored – does matter.
Political risks are hard to predict and not recurring. The nature of political risk is
that it can strike suddenly and have unpredictable consequences, as has already
been witnessed in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Bahrain and Yemen. Political risk
has been latent for many years in the Middle East, but has now erupted across
most countries in the region. Events just the past few months show that the struc-
tural landscape of the region’s politics is changing fundamentally. Under these
circumstances, long-standing assumptions concerning political risk and its poten-
tial economic impact are being challenged. There is no doubt that political change
in the Middle East could ultimately be positive as governments that enjoy greater
legitimacy tend to be more resilient to economic shocks, which require govern-
ments to take tough economic measures. In the short term, however, the process
of political change has brought negative economic pressures on the economies of
these countries, hence affecting IFIs operating directly or indirectly through the

--- Página 356 ---
340
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
region. On 15 May 2011, Zawya reported that close to USD 1.6 trillion worth of
projects were cancelled or on hold in the Middle East and North African (MENA)
market, where most IFIs reside and/or operate, because of the recent events.
If the questionnaire was to be redistributed now, after the eruption of the
Middle Eastern revolutions, political risk would most likely attract much higher
scores given that most Islamic banks are located in, or directly affected by, the
Middle East.
Interviewees also indicated that IFIs’ unsound risk management architecture
is reflected by their concentration risks, poor sector allocation, imprudent liq-
uidity management and imbalanced ALM. In addition, interviews revealed that
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk is a significant risk facing IFIs. It is also noticeable
that both Islamic and non-Islamic bankers had similar risk perceptions about risk
management in Islamic banking. This supports Research Hypothesis 1.
This further confirms the findings from the research conducted by Al-Omar
and Abdel-Haq (1996), who identified credit and liquidity risks for Islamic banks
as higher than those for conventional banks. Also, Khan and Ahmed (2001) found
that IFIs face some risks that are different from those faced by conventional finan-
cial institutions. They revealed that some of these risks are considered more serious
than the conventional risks. While Moody’s (2009c) highlighted that IFIs suffer
from liquidity management and stated that “liquidity tends to be a financial crutch
for Islamic banks”, the report indicated that the handling of asset–liability mis-
matches is not a new problem in Islamic banking; it is as old as Islamic banking
itself.
Furthermore, breaking down the descriptive statistics among different groups
provided significant findings, as summarised in Table 7.6. Three out of the top four
risks identified by Islamic bankers are also listed by conventional bankers among
the top four risks. In general, risk perceptions among bankers, whether Islamic
or non-Islamic, reflected similar patterns. This was emphasised by the frequency
distribution and the Kruskall-Wallis (K-W) test of significance in Chapter 8.
Subsequently, further sub-hypotheses were formulated in order to further
investigate the impact of various categories of respondents on risk perception.
This was done with the objective of exploring if there are trends and correlations
among the different control variables.
The sub-hypotheses are as follows:
H1-1: There is no statistically significant difference among the respondents
in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs according
to region.
As can be seen in Table 8.1, at α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected and
the alternative hypothesis is accepted, since the tested p-value is lower than the

--- Página 357 ---
Contextualising the Findings
341
critical p-value for corporate governance risk (p = 0.002), implying that there are
statistically significant differences in the risk perception of corporate governance
risk among different regions.
The mean rankings for credit, liquidity, corporate governance and concentra-
tion risks remain very similar between fully fledged Islamic banks and Islamic
subsidiaries, and slightly change when conventional banks are added to the sam-
ple; however, the pattern is still obvious. The findings indicate that there is an
observed pattern, which can be generalised to most of the risk categories. This can
be explained only by market realities. In line with this, Noraini et al. (2009) found
no evidence that Islamic bankers in different countries perceived risks differently;
that research focused solely on Islamic bankers.
Moreover, the K-W test with ‘Region’ as the control variable for different
samples of data in terms of the institutional nature of respondents consistently
show that there is a significant difference between regions in risk perception of cor-
porate governance risk. A bank’s corporate governance practices can have a mate-
rial impact on its risk profile, particularly where governance practices are weak.
This was re-emphasised by the K-W test results for Statement 10 in Question
11 of the questionnaire. When asked how strongly they agree or disagree with the
statement ‘Corporate governance is generally weak in Islamic banks’, the majority
of respondents agreed, and the K-W test had very significant results across various
control variables as summarised in Table 8.19.
According to a study by Safieddine (2009), there is a need to give special
attention to corporate governance issues in IFIs due to the importance of corporate
governance for economic development, the growth of Islamic finance, the critical
role of governance in financial institutions, and the unique agency issues faced
by these institutions. Most of the Islamic banks surveyed by Safieddine (2009)
recognise the importance of incorporating governance mechanisms. Some gover-
nance instruments, including the board of directors, Shari’ah Supervisory Boards
and internal control departments, appear to have the qualifications and composi-
tion that would equip them to mitigate agency issues; however, deficiencies in the
actual practices of governance are still observed, leaving agency issues unresolved.
The establishment of a governance committee or an audit committee is not com-
mon among the banks surveyed, and clear internal audit functions are not properly
established. Therefore, the financial reporting process does not appear to be tightly
monitored, and this could potentially result in agency problems. Most importantly,
investment account holders (IAHs) and other investors still lack access to relevant
information, and they continue to lack influence on management decisions, which
expands the divergence between their cash flow and monitoring rights.
Khandelwal (2008) also argues that transparency and corporate governance
in the Islamic financial services industry should always be developed and adjusted
to meet the specific needs of Islamic banks.

--- Página 358 ---
342
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
As explained in Chapter 3, IFIs do not generally have robust corporate
governance frameworks in place. However, in this they are no different from some
of their local conventional peers. For instance, family ownership/majority owner-
ship by a core shareholder group is seen in both segments of an Islamic country’s
banking system. Their prevalence weakens the rights of minority shareholders,
could lead to unmerited appointments or promotion of family members, and
could give rise to conflicts of interest between shareholders and bondholders. The
lack of genuinely independent directors is a shortcoming of emerging markets
in general and impairs a board’s ability to maintain accountability and provide
strategic guidance. As discussed in Chapter 3, the two cases of Ahmad Hamad
Algosaibi & Brothers and the Saad Group in Saudi Arabia raised questions about
corporate governance in the Middle East as the two conglomerates were, to a
certain degree, a family affair.
In fact, weak corporate governance structures are a general feature of Islamic
banking. For a number of IFIs, corporate governance systems are opaque, unac-
countable and often heavily ‘relationship-based’, as opposed to the predominantly
rule-based corporate governance systems of conventional banks in developed mar-
kets. Often, Islamic banks’ ownership structures are complex and not transparent;
in addition, developed corporate governance structures comprising qualified inde-
pendent board members, effective committee structures, protection of minority
shareholder interests, etc., are absent. In many cases, the owners or shareholders
hold key management positions and dominate the board of directors, thus making
it difficult for the board to manage conflicts of interest between the controlling
shareholders’ interests and those of the minority shareholders.
Banks in the Middle East in general have traditionally enjoyed a cosy rela-
tionship with prominent family-owned businesses. The practice of so-called name
lending – extending credit based on the reputation and standing of the company’s
owners rather than on rigorous examination of its financial health – is prevalent.
According to Zawya, most family businesses in the Middle East are less than
65 years old. Many of them began as trading houses and have now become diversi-
fied conglomerates. However, a host of challenges facing many family businesses
in the Gulf are worth considering:
(i) Succession issues and transferring effective control and knowledge from one
generation to the next is a challenge and, as shareholders (family members)
become numerous, they impact the efficiency of decision-making.
(ii) Attracting outside talent and relinquishing control when necessary are always
important. Over the years, family groups have grown into multi-billion-dollar
conglomerates, sometimes without commensurate skill resources.
(iii) Family businesses need to shift from being purely operational to thinking in
more strategic terms.

--- Página 359 ---
Contextualising the Findings
343
(iv) Separation of management and ownership may be difficult.
(v) Diversification into multiple businesses can lead to over-extension beyond the
group’s core knowledge and competences.
The GCC Board Directors Institute, a Dubai-based non-profit that seeks to
improve corporate governance standards, issued a report in 2009 highlighting the
need for reform in the six GCC member states – Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The report Building Better
Boards notes that only 55% of GCC companies disclose the main executive posi-
tions of board members, compared with 100% in Europe, and only 32% of com-
panies disclose other positions held by board members, compared with 97% in
Europe. It urges a reduction in the number of boards on which directors serve; the
appointment of strong audit, nomination and remuneration committees; efforts to
attract more international directors to the boards of Gulf companies; and the pro-
motion of greater corporate transparency (Townsend, 2009).
Corporate governance risk in the GCC, where most Islamic banks reside, has
become publicly exposed. Poor corporate governance imposes heavy costs. The
need for additional efforts toward improved corporate transparency is paramount.
As long as Gulf companies and banks restricted their activities to largely within
the region, there was little pressure to change those opaque practices. But growing
links with international markets and financial institutions are generating greater
demands for reform. Changing corporate practices, however, would not be easy.
Governance reform needs to be addressed against the cultural backdrop in the Gulf,
which places great emphasis on reputation and discretion.
The same trend could be established when different K-W tests were conducted
with different institutional settings. As discussed in the following hypotheses, it
was concluded that three control variables (region, country and nature of financial
institution) demonstrate some significant differences about risk perception among
respondents, but not for all risks.
Furthermore, although statistically corporate governance risk is the sole
significant risk identified by respondents, examining the mean ranking of other
risks like concentration, credit and liquidity risks reveals a structural pattern
determined by market realities. Also, as depicted by Tables 8.4 to 8.6, the
differences between the mean rankings is noticeable among different regions for
these risks and when conducting the K-W test for different samples using different
institutional settings, which confirms that there is significant difference between
regions.
H1-2 : There is no statistically significant difference among the respondents
in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs according
to the country in which they operate.

--- Página 360 ---
344
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected and the alternative hypothesis is
accepted. The K-W test was conducted in a similar manner according to ‘Coun-
try’ as control variable; the results confirm those produced by the test conducted
according to the ‘Region’.
H1-3: There is no statistically significant difference among the respondents
in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs according
to the respondent’s position.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is accepted and the alternative hypothesis is
rejected, since the tested p-value is higher than the critical p-value. Therefore, the
results suggest that statistically there are no differences in risk perception among
respondents according to their position.
H1-4: There is no statistically significant difference among the respondents
in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs according
to accounting standards.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is accepted and the alternative hypothesis
is rejected, since the tested p-value is higher than the critical p-value. The results
of the K-W test in Table 8.7 show that there are no significant differences among
different respondent categories.
H1-5: There is no statistically significant difference among the respondents
in relation to their perception of the various risks facing IFIs according
to nature of the financial institution.
For this hypothesis, the results from the K-W test provided dispersed data.
At α = 0.05, liquidity, ALM, Shari’ah-non-compliance, concentration, reputation
and displaced commercial risks had significant p-values, while the remaining risks
did not. Therefore, the null hypothesis is accepted and the alternative hypothesis is
rejected, since the tested p-value is lower than the critical p-value for most risks.
Further examination of the mean rankings for risks with significant p-value, as
summarised in Table 8.9, confirms the dispersion of data as no trend could be
established. In general, fully fledged Islamic banks and conventional banks with
Islamic activities have higher mean values than conventional banks alone and
‘Others’, particularly for liquidity, ALM and displaced commercial risks. This
trend, nonetheless, slightly changes for concentration and reputation risks. Of
note also is the proximity of mean value among fully fledged Islamic banks and
Islamic subsidiaries, which reflects the similar perception of risks in Islamic bank-
ing. One possible reason for this is the similar knowledge and awareness about

--- Página 361 ---
Contextualising the Findings
345
Islamic banking products and structures among those professionals with hands-on
experience in Islamic banking. This confirms the findings of the descriptive statis-
tics in the section ‘Locating Risk Perception’ in Chapter 7.
Moreover, this coincides with the findings of the qualitative analysis, as
on the basis of the interview findings, there is a high degree of correlation between
the responses of the two groups. However, differences generally existed between
the responses of bankers and non-bankers.
Based on the above hypotheses and the findings from both the quantitative
and qualitative analyses, it can be concluded that three control variables (region,
country and nature of financial institution) contribute to some significant differ-
ences about risk perception among respondents, but not for all risks. In addition,
this can also be supported by the fact that there is no significant difference
in perception levels between respondents from stand-alone Islamic banks and
Islamic subsidiaries. Initially, it was expected that respondents from stand-alone
Islamic banks would have stronger perceptions compared to those from Islamic
subsidiaries, for two reasons: firstly, stand-alone Islamic banks have been in
existence much longer than Islamic subsidiaries, and, secondly, the respondents
from stand-alone Islamic banks have the advantage of dealing with only Islamic
banking products and services whereas Islamic subsidiaries still need to operate
side by side with their respective conventional counterpart in sharing the same
operating platforms and buildings. Nevertheless, the results have indicated other-
wise. Differences could be spotted between the perceptions of conventional banks
and stand-alone Islamic banks, and more noticeably between the perceptions of
bankers and non-bankers, the latter being represented by the category ‘Others’.
This could be because bankers, whether Islamic or non-Islamic, have hands-on
experience and better understanding of the Islamic banking model and its risk
architecture than non-bankers, who tend to be more theoretical in their approach.
ISLAMIC FINANCE CONTRACTS
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on the usage and risk perception of Islamic finance contracts by responding
to the hypotheses set in advance.
Intensity of Use of Different Islamic Finance
Contracts
Hypothesis 2: Islamic bankers prefer mark-up based contracts (murabahah,
salaam, istisna’a and ijarah) and shy away from profit-sharing contracts
(musharakah and mudarabah).

--- Página 362 ---
346
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Descriptive statistics as depicted by Table 7.8 demonstrate that murabahah
contracts are by far the most used contracts. This ‘murabahah syndrome’ has
been under criticism from many Shari’ah scholars but unfortunately still remains
the backbone of IBF; murabahah has been intensively used by IFIs for money
market transactions, investment and retail activities. Recently, more banks have
been using walaka for money market transactions to replace the commodity
murabahah, which involves more complications and raises Shari’ah concerns.
The low mean for musharakah and mudarabah reflects Islamic banks’ reluctance
to hold risk-sharing assets. Moreover, the questionnaire revealed that salaam has
a long way to go before becoming commonly used by IFIs. It is evident from
the responses that the banks’ first preference is for financial instruments that are
generated through debt-creating, sale contracts and leasing instruments. This is
enhanced by the responses about risk perception in different modes of financing.
These findings are supported by the results of the Chi-Square test, which indicated
that the Chi-Square values of the contracts are very significant (p < 1%).
Moreover, evidence from interview analysis indicates that many Islamic bank-
ing products aim to essentially replicate the products and processes of the con-
ventional system. Most IFIs prefer mark-up based contracts and shy away from
profit-sharing contracts, which they perceive as more risky, as explained under
Hypothesis 3.
Therefore, the hypothesis stating that Islamic bankers prefer mark-up based
contracts and shy away from profit-sharing contracts is accepted by both quanti-
tative and qualitative analyses.
Subsequently, the following sub-hypotheses were tested to identify whether
there is any statistically significant difference in the level of understanding across
various groups of respondents based on the selected control variables.
H2-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to region.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected, since the significant p-value for
mudarabah is lower than the critical 0.05 p-value; hence the alternative hypothesis
is accepted. Inferential statistics in Table 8.11 show that ‘Other Middle East’ and
‘Southeast Asia’ use mudarabah the most, with mean values of 32.5 and 27.13
respectively, while ‘Europe’ (17.71) and the ‘GCC’ (16.74) rank less on the use of
mudarabah, as financial institutions in these regions tend to rely more on muraba-
hah, wakala and ijarah. This should be explained by the economies of the regions
in question.
H2-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to the respondent’s
position.

--- Página 363 ---
Contextualising the Findings
347
As can be seen in Table 8.10, the results suggest that the null hypothesis is
accepted as p-value for all contracts is higher than the critical 0.05 p-value, and
hence it can be concluded that ‘Respondent’s Position’ does not play a statistically
significant determining role.
H2-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to the nature of the
financial institution.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected, since the significant p-values for
wakala and salaam are lower than the critical 0.05 p-value; hence the alternative
hypothesis is accepted. This is also emphasised by the findings of the qualitative
data analysis, which reflect that fully fledged Islamic banks have some appetite
for risk-sharing contracts, although not enough, unlike Islamic subsidiaries and
conventional banks, which wish to share rewards without sharing risks, and prefer
the use of mark-up based contracts.
H2-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ use of Islamic finance contracts according to the nature
of activities.
The results shown in Table 8.10 indicate that the null hypothesis is accepted,
which suggests that ‘Nature of Activities’ plays no statistically significant deter-
mining role.
Risk Perception in Different Islamic Finance
Contracts
Hypothesis 3: Profit-sharing contracts are perceived as more risky than
mark-up based contracts in the Islamic finance industry.
The risk perceptions of the respondents in different modes of financing are
summarised in Table 7.9, which shows that respondents perceive mudarabah and
musharakah (mean value of 6.21 and 5.89 respectively) to be riskier than wakala
and murabahah (mean value of 2.26 and 1.90 respectively). The manipulation of
the contracts by Islamic finance practitioners in order to mimic conventional prod-
ucts made the risk perception of equity and risk-sharing contracts, for instance
wakala, similar to the risk perception of fixed-income contracts like murabahah.
This created a gap in risk perception of different contracts among different groups
of respondents. These findings are supported by the results of the Chi-Square
test, which indicated that the Chi-Square values of the items are very significant

--- Página 364 ---
348
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
(p < 1%). In addition, the Friedman test of significance in Table 8.13 shows that
there is a significant difference with regard to the risk in each mode of financ-
ing, at 1% significance level. This explains why IFIs shy away from such instru-
ments – due to their lack of appetite for risky assets – which in turn is due to IFIs
trying to emulate the conventional model.
Qualitative analysis confirmed those findings as most interviewees indi-
cated that in general IFIs prefer mark-up based contracts and shy away
from profit-sharing contracts, which they perceive as more risky. Therefore,
Hypothesis 3 is supported.
Although Islamic banking offers a combination of both equity and non-equity-
based instruments, the system’s preference for equity contracts – in theory – makes
it more efficient and stable than debt-based conventional systems. Sadr and Iqbal
(2002) presented empirical evidence based on the data gathered over 15 years
from the Agricultural Bank of Iran which demonstrated that equity-based financ-
ing increases transparency, monitoring and supervision, and thus improves the
efficiency and stability of the financial system. Unfortunately, IFIs tend to shy
away from equity- and partnership-based instruments for several reasons, such as
the inherent riskiness and additional costs of monitoring such investments, low
appetite for risk and lack of transparency in the markets.
It may be seen that greater reliance on equity financing has to be an indis-
pensable part of the strategy of any system which wishes to actualise the
humanitarian goals of need fulfilment, full employment, equitable dis-
tribution of income and wealth, and economic stability. And hence the
ideals of Islamic economics and finance.
(Asutay, 2009a)
The result is as per the expectation of the researcher and further confirms the
findings from the research conducted by Noraini et al. (2009), who found that
Islamic bankers perceive salaam and istisna’a to be riskier than murabahah and
ijarah, and that profit-sharing assets (mudarabah and musharakah) are perceived to
be more risky than mark-up based assets, particularly murabahah and ijarah, with
the exception of salaam. Also, Khan and Ahmed (2001) found that profit-sharing
modes of financing are perceived by bankers to have higher risk, while murabahah
was ranked as having the least risk, followed by ijarah. This is because Islamic
debt contracts (like murabahah) give the banks a relatively certain income and the
ownership of the leased asset remains with the bank. Nagaoka (2007) reflected
on the dichotomy in Islamic debt securities and concluded that Islamic finance
strongly adheres to financial transactions that involve real assets or those that
can be retrieved from the assets while the accumulation of wealth by means of
money-chained transactions is considered highly unacceptable in Islamic finance.

--- Página 365 ---
Contextualising the Findings
349
The following sub-hypotheses were developed to see if there is any signif-
icant difference in the level of knowledge across the groups of respondents for
each category. The statistical tests for all the relevant questions in relation to the
hypotheses are presented in Tables 8.13 to 8.17.
H3-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
region.
As depicted in Table 8.13, at α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected, since
the K-W test results for murabahah recorded a lower significant value than the
critical p-value. Therefore, the null hypothesis suggests that, statistically, there is
a significant difference in the level of risk perception of murabahah across dif-
ferent regions. This is expected because murabahah is extensively used globally.
Moreover, mean rankings for murabahah, in Table 8.14, show that ‘Other’ regions,
like Turkey and Pakistan, have a higher ranking (54.0) than the GCC (43.13) and
‘Europe’ (38.63), while the remaining regions follow. This can be attributed to two
main reasons. First, the European and ‘GCC’ markets are more sophisticated in
their financial awareness about risk management, product structures, and the use of
risk-hedging techniques than Turkey and Pakistan, a fact which has a direct impact
on risk perception among those markets. Second, at the time of conducting this
questionnaire, European and GCC markets enjoyed stable political environments
and ‘relatively’ less volatile business cycles compared to ‘Others’.
This trend was confirmed when the K-W test was repeated for different institu-
tional data. There is a general pattern in terms of perception of murabahah-related
issues. Such regional and institutional differences can be attributed to market con-
ditions prevailing in each region.
However, interview data analysis did not reveal such regional differences
among respondents when it comes to risk perception of different Islamic finance
contracts. Most interviewees, regardless of the region, agreed that risk-sharing
among Islamic banks is still the exception rather than the rule.
H3-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
the respondent’s position.
For this hypothesis, the results from the K-W test accept the null hypothesis
and reject the alternative hypothesis, since all the Islamic finance modes of finance
registered an insignificant p-value of more than the critical p-value of 0.05 as can

--- Página 366 ---
350
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
be seen in Table 8.17. Therefore, it can be concluded that, statistically, there is no
significant difference in the level of risk perception of Islamic finance contracts
according to the respondent’s position.
The qualitative analysis in Chapter 9 reveals that Shari’ah scholars and con-
sultants in particular encourage the use of musharakah and mudarabah contracts
more than bankers do. Also, the former consider risk-sharing modes of finances
to be less risky, while the latter perceive the mark-up based modes of finance to
be less risky.
H3-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
nature of financial institution.
As depicted in Table 8.17, at α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected and the
alternative hypothesis is accepted, since the p-value for murabahah (0.03) is lower
than the critical p-value of 0.05.
This is also emphasised by the findings of the qualitative data analysis, which
reflects that fully fledged Islamic banks believe that mushrakah and mudarabah
are not as risky as perceived by Islamic subsidiaries and conventional banks, the
latter tending to find comfort in using murabahah and wakala products.
H3-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
the accounting standards used.
Table 8.17 depicts that at α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected, since the
K-W test results for murabahah recorded a lower significant value (0.028) than
the critical p-value. Therefore, the alternative hypothesis suggests that accounting
standards plays a statistically significant determining role.
Qualitative data analysis did not test responses against accounting standards
used by the financial institution.
H3-5: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ risk perceptions about Islamic finance contracts according to
nature of activities.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is accepted, since the K-W test results for
all contracts recorded a higher p-value than the critical p-value as can be seen in
Table 8.17.

--- Página 367 ---
Contextualising the Findings
351
ADDITIONAL RISK ISSUES FACING ISLAMIC
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on additional risk issues facing IFIs by responding to the hypothesis set
in advance.
Hypothesis 4: There is no substantial difference between risk management
in Islamic banking and conventional banking.
Descriptive statistics in Chapter 7 indicate that risk management for IFIs is
more challenging than it is for conventional banks. Not only do IFIs face some
risks that are different from those of their conventional peers, but these risks
are also more serious and not well understood. Displaced commercial risk and
Shari’ah standardisation are obvious examples of additional challenges facing
IFIs. The findings also highlighted that corporate governance is generally weak
in Islamic banks, which re-emphasises the findings of sub-hypothesis H1-1.
In addition, risk management functions in IFIs in many cases lack influence
in the bank’s decision-making process. They may in some cases appear strong
on paper, although the de facto governance behind this is not robust. This could
include, for example, a lack of sufficiently senior risk management representation
at board level, insufficient powers delegated to risk management, or the presence
of strong shareholders or political influences that are able to override or influence
decision-making on risk management. Engel (2010) argues that risk managers in
IFIs generally lack independence. Rarely can risk managers veto or influence strat-
egy in Islamic banks and they are mostly tasked with managing existing exposures
and monitoring disbursed loans, along with other back-office functions.
Furthermore, factor analysis was used in responding to Hypothesis 4. The
final outcomes and a detailed discussion of the factor analysis are available in the
section‘AdditionalRiskIssuesFacingIFIs’inChapter7.Thefactoranalysisresults
suggest that all 11 variables of risk perception are reduced to three components,
namely ‘Risk Perception’, ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ and finally ‘Rate of Return’.
The findings from the quantitative analysis echo the interview findings which
indicate that Islamic banking in its current state can be riskier than conventional
banking. There are several risk management areas where improvement can be
made to promote and to enhance the functioning of IFIs. Risks in IFIs must
be assessed in an integrated manner and risks for IFIs should not be managed
using the same techniques as those used in conventional banking.
The following sub-hypotheses were formulated in order to identify whether
there are any significant differences across various groups in the respective control
variables.

--- Página 368 ---
352
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
H4-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about additional risk management issues in Islamic bank-
ing according to the nature the of financial institution.
The results in Table 8.18 suggest that the null hypothesis is rejected in favour
of the alternative hypothesis, indicating that there are significant differences
according to nature of financial institution. In addition, in order to respond to this
hypothesis after conducting factor analysis, further analysis was carried out using
a one-way between-groups MANOVA test in order to investigate if there is any
significant difference between the three component groups identified under factor
analysis in relation to same control variables. This helped to locate the impact or
significance of each control variable on the established distribution. The results in
Table 8.30 signify that 30.1% and 33.6% of the variances in ‘Risk Perception’ and
‘Shari’ah Compliance’ scores are explained respectively by nature of financial
institution.
H4-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about additional risk management issues in Islamic bank-
ing according to region.
As can be seen in Table 8.19, similar conclusions can be derived from this
category analysis, where the statistical results reject the null hypothesis. Similarly,
after conducting factor analysis further analysis was carried out using a one-way
between-groups MANOVA test in order to investigate if there is any significant
difference between the three component groups in relation to the same control
variables. This helped to locate the impact or significance of each control vari-
able on the established distribution. The results in Table 8.26 signify 45.9% and
34.4% of the variances in ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ scores are
explained respectively by the region.
Conducting the MANOVA test according to ‘Region’ and ‘Nature of Financial
Institution’ as independent variables provided consistent results. It can be con-
cluded that ‘Risk Perception’ and ‘Shari’ah Compliance’ are significant dependent
variables and have strong explanatory power, while ‘Rate of Return’ does not fol-
low the pattern.
H4-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about additional risk management issues in Islamic bank-
ing according to the respondent’s position.
Similarly for this sub-hypothesis, the results reject the null hypothesis as
Table 8.19 depicts. The p-value for Statements 2, 3, 4, 7 and 10 are lower than the
critical p-value of 0.05. It can be concluded that the respondent’s position plays a
statistically significant determining role.

--- Página 369 ---
Contextualising the Findings
353
H4-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about additional risk management issues in Islamic bank-
ing according to the nature of activities.
The inferential statistical results in Table 8.19 reject the null hypothesis and
accept the alternative hypothesis as the p-value for Statements 2, 4, 7, 8, 10 and
11 are significantly lower than the critical p-value of 0.05.
H4-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about additional risk management issues in Islamic bank-
ing according to the accounting standards used.
Similarly, for the accounting standards control variable, the null hypothesis
is rejected in favour of the alternative hypothesis, since the p-value recorded for
some statements in the Table 8.19 is lower than the critical p-value limit.
CAPITAL ADEQUACY FOR ISLAMIC BANKS
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on capital adequacy issues facing IFIs by responding to the hypothesis set
in advance.
Hypothesis 5: Capital requirements levels should be lower in IFIs than in
conventional banks.
The frequency distribution in Figure 7.5 shows that 65.3% of respondents
believe that IFIs should hold higher capital levels than their conventional peers.
Only 8.3% of respondents indicated that IFIs should hold lower capital levels,
18.1% indicated they should hold the same level, while 6.9% indicated they did
not know the answer.
In addition, most interviewees believe that IFIs should hold higher capital
levels than their conventional counterparts because the Islamic banking business
model in its current state carries more risks.
Therefore, the hypothesis stating that capital requirement levels should be
lower in IFIs than in conventional banks is rejected by both quantitative and qual-
itative analyses, which implies that capital requirement levels should be higher in
IFIs than in conventional banks.
The responses are against the researcher’s expectations, as most literature
reviewed suggests that IFIs should have lower capital requirements than their
conventional peers. Archer and Abdel Karim (2007), for instance, argue that the

--- Página 370 ---
354
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
risk-sharing characteristic of Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts (PSIAs) in
Islamic banking could greatly enhance risk management and mitigation in IFIs
provided that proper pricing, reserving and disclosure are maintained. Therefore,
IFIs should be subject to lower capital requirements because according to the
Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB) supervisory discretion formula, α
represents the extent of total risk assumed by the PSIA, with the remainder
absorbed by the shareholders on account of displaced commercial risk. In line
with this, Farook (2008) argues that, if IFIs apply the profit and loss sharing (PLS)
principle practically, losses will be shared with PSIAs and hence the Islamic bank
will be prone to lower risks leading to lower required minimum capital. The IFSB
supervisory discretion formula is a step in the right direction, with α representing
the extent of total risk assumed by the PSIA, with the remainder absorbed by the
shareholders on account of displaced commercial risk. IFIs that implement the
risk-sharing technique practically will be keen on proper disclosure in order to
enjoy a higher capital relief.
While the researcher agrees with the concepts discussed in the literature
review from an academic point of view, the practice remains different (as depicted
by the primary research findings). In order to apply the risk-sharing principle
practically, the IFSB standards should be made mandatory for Islamic banks to
allow for wider implementation, consistency and standardisation of risk manage-
ment principles across the Islamic financial industry. This requires collaboration
between regulators, IFSB, Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic
Financial Institutions (AAOIFI), Islamic banks and industry practitioners.
Hypothesis 6: Basel II was drafted with conventional banking very much in
mind. IFIs should follow their own standards, e.g. IFSB principles on
capital adequacy.
The frequency distribution in Figure 7.6 shows that the majority of respon-
dents believe that Basel II could be applied to IFIs but with a few amendments.
In fact, most IFIs use Basel II capital adequacy standards, with greater use of the
basic and standardised approaches rather than the advanced models. This is due to
the relative simplicity of their capital requirements. Moreover, 87.5% of respon-
dents believe that Basel II standards should be reviewed after failing to prevent
the crisis. As depicted in Figure 7.6, there is an obvious lack of clarity on the
applicability of the proposed Basel III standards to Islamic banking, as 65.3% of
respondents were ‘neutral’ when asked about the issue, 27.8% either ‘disagree’ or
‘strongly disagree’ that the proposed Basel III rules would be easily applicable to
Islamic banks. Around one-third of respondents do not believe that the new stan-
dards, with their stricter capital, leverage and liquidity rules, are likely to prevent
another financial crisis. The break down between Islamic and non-Islamic bankers
reveals the same pattern, as shown in Table 7.15.

--- Página 371 ---
Contextualising the Findings
355
Interviewees had varying views about the suitability of Basel II and poten-
tially Basel III to Islamic banking. In general, respondents, particularly bankers
and rating agency analysts agree that with a few amendments, Basel II becomes
applicable to IFIs in order to ensure a level playing field for all banks. It is
interesting to note that despite a general lack of absolute clarity about Basel III
and its potential impact on IFIs, most interviewees agreed that Basel III is a fact
that is here to stay. There is also a general belief among respondents that although
Basel III is more demanding than Basel II with regard to addressing systemic
risk, it may not be the last of the Basel series. This is mainly because risk is
inherent in the complex global financial markets of increasing sophistication.
Basel III cannot work on its own. As the regulators recognise, financial stability
is about far more than capital and liquidity ratio. Banks will still fail even if
higher ratios are implemented. Regulators need to work on other steps to reduce
systemic risk including enhanced transparency, risk-sharing and value creation.
All these concepts are rooted in Islamic finance, but unfortunately tend to
be neglected.
Therefore, Hypothesis 6 is rejected by both quantitative and qualitative
analyses.
Although the result is not as per the expectations of the researcher, it confirms
the findings of the research conducted by Noraini et al. (2009), who concluded
that Basel II could be applied to Islamic banks but with some adaptations and the
IFSB could play an important role in this context. In addition, consideration of the
implications of Basel III is at an early stage for most IFIs. While Akkizidis and
Khandelwal (2007) argue that Basel II is primarily for conventional banks and
thus does not offer great help to IFIs, they believe that although Pillars 1 and 2 of
Basel II have limited applicability to Islamic banking, the third Pillar of Basel II
on market disclosure is largely applicable to IFIs because social responsibility and
transparency are of utmost importance in Islamic finance.
Fitch Ratings (2011) expects Basel III to have little impact on IFIs’ capital
adequacy, as capital ratios are generally sound and consist largely of core Tier 1
capital. Hybrid capital is negligible in the region. However, new liquidity require-
ments may be significant, as IFIs have a substantial maturity mismatch: customer
deposits are contractually short term (albeit very stable), while IFIs are financ-
ing increasingly longer-term assets. This may require some adjustment to their
liquidity management.
Subsequently, the following sub-hypotheses were developed to see if there is
any significant difference in the perception across different groups of respondents
for each control variable.
H6-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to
region.

--- Página 372 ---
356
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected, since the K-W test results for four
statements (out of five) recorded a lower significant value than the critical p-value,
as depicted in Table 8.31.
H6-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to
nature of financial institution.
As Table 8.32 shows, at α = 0.05 the null hypothesis is accepted and the alter-
native hypothesis is rejected for all statements except Statement 5. All statements
are statistically insignificant except Statement 5, which shows different views
between bankers (whether Islamic or conventional) and non-bankers (p-value =
0.02), which is also evident from the mean ranking. This implies that the nature of
financial institution is not a statistically determining factor, and that the opinions
of the respondents are rather similar. This coincides with the results of descriptive
statistics, in Figure 7.4, as more than 59% of respondents use Basel II standards.
H6-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to the
nature of activities.
Similarly, for the ‘Nature of Activities’ control variable, the null hypothesis is
rejected since the p-value recorded in the testing is lower than the critical p-value
limit for three statements, as depicted in Table 8.33.
H6-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ views about capital adequacy for Islamic banks according to
respondent’s position.
Similar results also can be found for the ‘Respondent’s Position’ control vari-
able in Table 8.34. At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected and this suggests
that the alternative hypothesis is accepted since the p-value recorded in the test-
ing is significantly lower than the critical p-value limit for Statement 5 (0.008).
Therefore, it can be concluded that, statistically, there is a significant difference in
the respondents’ perceptions according to their position.
ISLAMIC BANKING AND THE GLOBAL CREDIT
CRISIS
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on the global credit crisis and Islamic banking by responding to the hypoth-
esis set in advance.

--- Página 373 ---
Contextualising the Findings
357
Hypothesis 7: Islamic banking is more resilient to economic shocks than con-
ventional banking but not recession proof.
It is interesting to note that both Islamic and non-Islamic bankers in the
questionnaire share the view that Islamic banking is less risky than conventional
banking, in theory, due to the naturally inherent conservatism in the Shari’ah
principles; however, the theory is a long way from fact in current financial
practice. Participants asserted that reform is needed within Islamic banking in
order for it to be successful and capable of providing an ethical alternative to the
debunked Wall Street banking model. Most respondents also support the view
that the recent crisis could have been avoided under a genuine Islamic banking
system. Although IFIs were by no means unscathed by the crisis, it had a less
severe impact than elsewhere and allowed prominent issues to be brought to the
forefront. This supports Hypothesis 7.
Factor analysis was used in responding to Hypothesis 7. The final outcomes
and a detailed discussion of the factor analysis are available in the section ‘The
Credit Crisis and Islamic Banks’ in Chapter 8. The factor analysis results suggest
that all nine variables of perception of the credit crisis and Islamic banking are
reduced to two components, namely ‘Resilience of IFIs’ and ‘Risk management
must be embedded institutionally’.
Furthermore, most interviewees believe that although IFIs have been more
resilient to the ongoing crisis than their conventional counterparts, the shift in the
environment did negatively affect some of them. Islamic finance is not an island;
it has suffered from the liquidity drought, to the point where a few IFIs have
defaulted, but as an industry it now has a track record of resilience (which had not
been tested before). While the global crisis gave Islamic banking an opportunity
to prove its resilience, it also highlighted the need to address important challenges.
Therefore, Hypothesis 7 is supported by both quantitative and qualitative
analyses.
The results further confirm the findings revealed by Moody’s (2011a) that
while the Islamic financial industry seems to have been resilient to the crisis rel-
ative to its conventional counterpart, it is far from being a risk-free segment. The
most affected line of business within the industry was undoubtedly investment
banking. And yet, until 2007, Shari’ah-compliant investment banks were por-
trayed by market participants as having significant potential, benefiting from cheap
funding, high liquidity, exceptional profits and robust capitalisation. At the time,
the combination of these four factors led them to pursue investments in riskier mar-
kets and asset classes such as private equity, infrastructure or real estate, mostly
in emerging markets ranging from the Maghreb to Southeast Asia.
When the financial crisis erupted in mid-2007, the Islamic finance industry
remained relatively healthy and insulated, and recorded robust performance. Some

--- Página 374 ---
358
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
commentators wrongly labelled Islamic finance as a ‘risk-free’ sector. However,
the significant defaults of The Investment Dar (TID) and Gulf Finance House
(GFH) since early 2009 and the growing difficulties of the rest of the Islamic
investment banking community make this assessment dubious, as the structural
weaknesses of the Islamic financial industry started to become more obvious. The
crisis was a unique opportunity for the industry to prove that it had the capacity
and ability to react to and absorb shocks, but not for all its sub-segments. While
the commercial banking sector seems to have emerged from the crisis relatively
unscathed, the investment banking sector could not have been more different, as it
suffered a very sudden and sharp dip in performance as losses mounted (Moody’s,
2011a). One of the interviewees for this research, Engel (2010), adds that the struc-
tural feature of IFIs’ ALM – which was once a benefit when ample liquidity was
chasing too few assets – started to turn negative when sudden massive liquidity
withdrawals were backed by almost nothing but a high level of impaired assets.
In addition, the crisis revealed that IFIs also had heavy concentrations across the
board, by name, sector, geography and business line.
In fact, until 2007, IFIs benefited from a very favourable economic and liq-
uidity environment, especially due to the boom in the real estate and infrastruc-
ture sectors, and supported by massive government spending within these sectors.
Meanwhile, an increasing number of regional investors were attracted by the high
yields that IFIs were offering through their recycling of a growing amount of oil
wealth into investments that fell outside the remit of their plain-vanilla banking
activities. The perception of sound capitalisation was largely artificial in the sense
that it underestimated the profound impact of sector-wide concentration risks and
inadequate liquidity management. Above all, IFIs registered impressive perfor-
mance for one main reason: available and cheap liquidity, explains Thun (2010),
one of the interviewees for this research. This element was at the heart of the
business model, consisting of borrowing short to invest long on behalf of their
investment constituencies, while keeping on the balance sheet a portion of the
IFI’s illiquid investment portfolio that was incommensurate with their liquidity
and capital profile.
The interviews also indicated that by the beginning of 2009, operating rev-
enues started to shrink for IFIs, reflecting their struggle to book new transactions
(negative volume effect) and declining asset valuations (negative price effect).
At the same time, their fixed charges remained stable, while funding costs and
expenses escalated. This P&L scissors effect worsened in the second half of 2009,
leaving the IFIs with very limited room for manoeuvre. This highlights the very
weak diversification of their revenue base, their dependence on a very uncertain
transaction flow rather than on an existing stock of cash-flow-generating assets,
and the cyclical cost of their funding profiles. Only a few IFIs managed to mitigate
this issue.

--- Página 375 ---
Contextualising the Findings
359
Above all, the crisis revealed weak risk management architectures among
most IFIs. It had the constructive effect of focusing the minds of Islamic
practitioners on their core business strategies and operating models, highlighting
corporate governance and asset and liability management specifically. According
to Moody’s (2011a), TID, for instance, (which defaulted in May 2009) did not
disclose proper risk management information. Furthermore, in 2007, most IFIs
only applied Basel I, which did not make it mandatory for them to adhere to
Basel II’s Pillar 3 disclosure requirements. Only in the 2008 financial reporting
data (released during Q1 2009, i.e. quite late in the cycle given the extreme
circumstances at the time) did IFIs start to adopt more transparent approaches to
risk management, Basel II guidelines and requirements. Even then, not all the
information was clearly and consistently released by the IFIs. However, since
2009, disclosure practices have been improving significantly (Moody’s, 2011a).
Traditionally, IFIs have not been heavily leveraged. The primary reasons for
conservative financial leverage maintenance are: (i) IFIs have limited incentives to
grow debt-like liabilities because their assets tend to be highly profitable; (ii) they
needed to set aside extra capital buffers to prepare for expansion; (iii) funding
is usually cheap, thanks to easy access to non-remunerated qardh hasan current
account deposits; and (iv) the necessity to set aside capital charges for specific risks
like displaced commercial risk (DCR), reputation risks and concentration risks as
per Basel II’s Pillar 2 (Moody’s, 2009c). These capital and liquidity buffers, previ-
ously criticised by opponents of Islamic finance as a burden on profitability, have
perhaps been one of the most important strengths of the IFIs amid the crisis because
they provide a financial institution with surplus cash to use as a shock absorber.
Under the recent difficult economic conditions, most IFIs have been able to seek
out opportunities by using their surplus liquidity to aggressively boost deposit
volumes and thus to increase their market shares by growing lending volumes,
while maintaining their focus on the retail and corporate sectors. This is a strategy
employed by GCC banks to de-couple their retail lending business from global
markets by focusing on extending credit locally. According to another interviewee,
Damak (2010), with very few exceptions (especially in Dubai), funding has been
less of a constraint for IFIs because of the market’s perception that these players
will be more resilient than their conventional peers to the global credit turmoil.
Hasan and Dridi (2010) argue that IFIs have avoided the subprime exposure,
but note that they are subject to the ‘second round effect’ of the global crisis. They
explain that, because the global financial crisis originated from subprime mortgage
portfolios which were spun off into securitised instruments subsequently offered as
investments, IFIs were not affected because Islamic finance is based on a close link
between financial and productive flows. However, the protracted duration of the
crisis affected IFIs as well, not because these institutions have a direct exposure to
derivative instruments, but simply because Islamic banking contracts are based on

--- Página 376 ---
360
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
asset-backed transactions. With the global economic downturn, property markets
have seen a decline in a number of countries where IFIs have a significant presence.
This carries negative implications for these banks as a large number of contracts
are backed by real estate and property as collateral. Hasan and Dridi assert that the
crisis highlighted a number of sector-specific challenges that need to be addressed
in order for IFIs to continue growing at a sustainable pace. Specifically, the key
challenges faced by the Islamic banking industry include (i) the infrastructure and
tools for liquidity risk management, which remain underdeveloped in many juris-
dictions; (ii) a legal framework, which is incomplete or untested; (iii) the lack
of harmonised contracts; and (iv) insufficient expertise (at the supervisory and
industry levels) relative to the industry’s growth.
In addition, the lack of harmonised accounting and regulatory standards was a
key challenge for regulators and market participants during the crisis. This is even
more acute for IFIs given the lack of standard financial contracts and products
across the various institutions within the same country, as well as across jurisdic-
tions. Local accounting standards used in the Islamic banking sector often consist
of a mixture of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), International
Accounting Standards (IAS), AAOIFI and other specific standards, complicating
the operations of Islamic banking. While full harmonisation might not be possi-
ble given the nature of the industry, mutual recognition of financial standards and
products across jurisdictions would help limit this problem. It would also reduce
transaction costs, help implement efficient regulatory oversight, enhance the pro-
cess of compliance, and contribute to confidence and industry growth (Hasan and
Dridi, 2010). Moreover, Ahmed (2009) identifies the issues and problems behind
the crisis at three levels: regulatory level, organisational level and product level.
“There is a real role for regulators on the national level to make regulations a fair
playing field for Islamic banks” adds Asaria (2011).
In summary, Islamic banks, working within the business cycle of their respec-
tive countries, have suffered from the crisis, to the point where a few of the sector’s
banks have defaulted, but as an industry it now has a track record of resilience
(which had not been tested before). Islamic banking is expected to emerge stronger
from the crisis, provided some conditions are met: more innovation, enhanced
transparency, more robust risk management architecture and culture, and above all,
enhanced Shari’ah compliance. In theory, Islamic financial principles contribute
to the stability of the financial system. Islamic modes of finance, particularly the
profit-sharing principle, provide a loss absorption feature to financial institutions.
However, the practice is very different from the theory. All of these deviations
between theory and practice mean that the system is not functioning at its full
potential and has adapted itself to limited functionality. Even if Islamic finance
had been prevailing, in its current state, the crisis could have happened, but at a
less severe level. Islamic finance has not yet provided a more principled mode
of finance than the debunked Wall Street model because the embedded ethical
foundations have not been explored yet (Asutay, 2009b).

--- Página 377 ---
Contextualising the Findings
361
Paradoxically, Islamic banks’ reputation has generally benefited from the
recent crisis. From a conceptual perspective, Islamic banks will probably be the
big winners when the crisis ends. As a sub-set of ethical finance, Islamic banking
is now considered not so much niche business standing at the margins, but
rather as representative of a credible, viable and sustainable alternative business
model for sound, ethical and socially responsible banking. Many now believe
that mainstream finance has moved too far into excess leverage, meaningless
innovation and value-destroying investments. The credit crunch has shaken
confidence in the existing Western regulations and created the need for a better,
more transparent system; this has opened the door for Islamic bankers to take
up the opportunity. Indeed at the 5th World Islamic Economic Forum (WIFE) in
Jakarta on 2 March 2009, Muslim leaders including Indonesian President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono and Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi called on
the Muslim world to leverage the global financial crisis by turning “adversity into
opportunity” (Parker, 2009).
According to the proceedings of the Securities Commission Malaysia (SC)
and the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies (OCIS) Roundtable and Forum (2010),
after the recent financial crisis Islamic banks seem to be emerging stronger than
conventional banks. According to Ken Eglinton, Director of Banking and Capi-
tal Markets at Ernest & Young, who was interviewed for this research, Ernest &
Young did a comparison between the top conventional banks and the top Islamic
banks. It showed that the aggregate net profits of the commercial banks dropped by
USD 42 billion in 2008 from USD 116 billion in 2006. In contrast, the net profits
of Islamic banks increased by 9% during the same period.
The following sub-hypotheses were developed to see if there is any sig-
nificant difference in the level of perception across the different categories of
respondents.
H7-1: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking accord-
ing to region.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is rejected and the alternative hypothesis is
accepted, since seven out of nine statements had significant p-values. Therefore, it
is concluded that there are statistically different opinions among the respondents
coming from different regions.
In addition, in order to respond to this sub-hypothesis, after conducting fac-
tor analysis, further analysis was carried out using a one-way between-groups
MANOVA test in order to investigate if there is any significant difference between
the two component groups identified under factor analysis in relation to region
as the control variable. This helped to locate the impact or significance of each
control variable on the established distribution. The results signify that 32% of the
variances in ‘Resilience of IFIs’ scores are explained by region.

--- Página 378 ---
362
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
H7-2: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking accord-
ing to the nature of the financial institution.
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is accepted and the alternative hypothesis is
rejected for all statements except Statement 3, which shows that, statistically, the
nature of financial institution does not play a significant role in the difference in
perceptions among respondents. This is consistent with the descriptive statistics,
which show that most respondents share similar views regardless of the nature
of financial institution.
Statement 3: ‘Islamic finance could have solved the global crisis’ produced
differences among different categories of respondents. Mean rankings for State-
ment 3, as depicted by Table 8.36, show that fully fledged Islamic banks are far
more aggressive in their belief that Islamic finance could have solved the global
crisis than other categories (46.2), followed by Islamic subsidiaries (40.25), then
by ‘Others’ and ‘Conventional Banks’.
An attempt was also made to see the effect of ‘Nature of financial institution’
on the components identified in factor analysis through MANOVA. However, no
significant results could be established.
H7-3: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking accord-
ing to the nature of activities.
As Table 8.37 depicts, at α = 0.05 the K-W test results suggest that the null
hypothesis is rejected and the alternative hypothesis is accepted. Therefore, it can
be concluded that, statistically, there are significant differences in the level of per-
ception according to the institution’s ‘Nature of Activities’.
H7-4: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking accord-
ing to accounting standards.
Similarly, for the accounting standards control variable, the null hypothesis is
rejected in favour of the alternative hypothesis, since the p-value recorded in the
testing is lower than the critical p-value limit as shown in Table 8.38. Therefore,
it can be concluded that, statistically, there is a significant difference in the level
of perception according to the accounting standards utilised by the institution.
H7-5: There are no statistically significant differences among the respon-
dents’ perceptions about the credit crisis and Islamic banking accord-
ing to the respondent’s position.

--- Página 379 ---
Contextualising the Findings
363
At α = 0.05, the null hypothesis is accepted, suggesting that the alternative
hypothesis is rejected since the p-value recorded in the testing is lower than the
critical p-value limit. Thus, it can be concluded that, statistically, there are no sig-
nificant differences according to respondent’s position.
The findings from the above sub-hypotheses tests echo the findings from
the descriptive statistics and from the qualitative interview analysis. However,
the inferential statistical analysis provides a higher level of understanding and
knowledge concerning the subject matter. Combining the results of the above
five sub-hypotheses tests provides an aggregate trend that can be attributed to
prevailing market conditions: retail fully fledged Islamic banks and Islamic
subsidiaries, located mainly in the ‘GCC’ and ‘Other’, are more aggressive in
their perceptions of the credit crisis and Islamic finance than other categories.
These banks tend to use AAOIFI accounting standards or IAS and AAOIFI
standards together. This trend could not be established by studying one control
variable in isolation; the five control variables had to be examined together in
order to see the bigger picture. This pattern is consistent with the findings of
Table 7.16, which breaks down the descriptive statistics among Islamic bankers
and non-Islamic bankers.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on risk management and reporting issues facing IFIs by responding to the
hypothesis set in advance.
Hypothesis 8: Not many Islamic banks use the more technically advanced
risk measurement and reporting techniques.
Findings from quantitative analyses indicate that although IFIs are doing com-
paratively well in terms of their general risk management and reporting, they are
still perceived to use less advanced risk management approaches. Frequency dis-
tribution in Table 7.16 shows that IFIs usually use the same risk management
techniques as conventional banks for managing risks, in particular liquidity, credit
and market risks. Nevertheless, the spread and frequency of utilising these tech-
niques is lower among Islamic banks than among their conventional peers. The
most widely used daily report among IFIs is the liquidity risk report, followed
by the credit exposure report and the profit rate risk report. Commodity risk and
equity mark-to-market reports are the least used by IFIs in this survey. Improving
risk management and reporting practices represent a serious challenge to Islamic
banking in order to lift itself to the next level. Interviewees also perceived IFIs

--- Página 380 ---
364
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
to use less advanced risk management approaches. Risk management frameworks
are not yet fully developed in IFIs. There is still lack of well-functioning system
of controls and internal checks and balances. The findings support Hypothesis 8.
Some interviewees indicated that currently there are weaknesses and a seri-
ous lack of a robust risk culture among IFIs. However, the financial crisis has
raised the profile of risk management within Islamic banks. In the current environ-
ment the painful cost of inadequate risk management is being demonstrated every
day. Banks seeking to navigate the recession must put a premium on effective
risk management. Also, due to limited resources, IFIs are often unable to afford
high-cost management information systems or the technology to assess and mon-
itor risk in a timely fashion. Efforts should be made to collaborate among IFIs
to develop Islamic risk management systems that are customised to the industry
needs. The changes required to institutionalise a strong risk culture are fundamen-
tal and far-reaching: risk must become ‘everyone’s business’ throughout the organ-
isation. Responsibility and accountability for risk should be intertwined among
all stakeholders, from board members to business unit heads and their teams, who
must be more actively committed to identifying and mitigating risks. There is a
need to introduce a risk management culture among Islamic banks.
These findings contradict those by Shaikh and Jalbani (2009), whose paper
optimistically concluded that the equity-based business of Islamic banks posing
slightly more risk than conventional banks is well mitigated by Islamic banks
through their effective and adequate distinct risk management procedures. The
researcher does not agree with the research methodology and the findings of this
study by Shaikh and Jalbani. Rosman and Abdul Rahman (2010) surveyed the
risk management practices of 28 Islamic banks from 16 different countries. Their
findings indicate that Islamic banks are doing comparatively well in terms of their
general risk management and operational risk management. In terms of risk report-
ing, the study found that the majority of Islamic banks produced various types of
risk reports and there is a significant improvement in their risk reporting over the
last few years. The majority of Islamic banks they surveyed produced all the risk
reports except for commodities and equities positions risk reports, and country risk
reports. On the other hand, Ahmed and Khan (2007) argue that there is a need to
introduce a better risk management culture in Islamic banks. Wilson (2002) also
argues that IFIs can learn from conventional banks in the fields of technology and
developing infrastructure, as much as conventional banks need to learn from IFIs
about staff and client motivation and relationships.
The following sub-hypothesis was developed to see if there is any significant
difference in the level of use of risk reporting across different regions.
H8-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the frequency of producing risk management reports according to
region.

--- Página 381 ---
Contextualising the Findings
365
The results from the K-W test reject the null hypothesis and accept the alter-
native hypothesis, since there is a significant difference among various regions
in the frequency of producing risk reports (p-value < 0.05) except for commod-
ity risk report (0.094), industry concentration risk report (0.129), credit exposure
report (0.091) and large exposure report (0.071). Hence, for the rest of the reports
there are significant differences in the perceptions of the participants. Thus, for
most of the reports ‘Region’ is a significant factor. Repeating the K-W test with
‘Region’ as the control variable for various institutional samples provided an obvi-
ous trend: conventional banks, concentrated in Europe and the Americas, produce
risk reports more frequently than Islamic banks. In addition, the results reflect the
risk management culture difference between Islamic and conventional banks.
RISK MEASUREMENT
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on risk measurement in IFIs by responding to the hypothesis set in advance.
Hypothesis 9: The use of risk measurement techniques is less advanced
among Islamic banks than among their conventional peers.
In addition to risk management reports, financial institutions use various tech-
niques to measure and analyse risks. Similar to Hypothesis 8, Hypothesis 9 is
supported by both quantitative and qualitative analyses. Frequency distribution in
Table 7.17 shows that the most common technique used by IFIs as indicated by
respondents is maturity matching analysis (22 respondents), followed by reliance
on external ratings provided by rating agencies (21 responses), internal-based rat-
ing and Gap analysis (19 responses each). Only 14 respondents indicated they use
Value at Risk (VaR) models, while simulation techniques are used by just six IFIs
in the sample. Interviewees also emphasised the fact that risk measurement tech-
niques in Islamic banking are not as sophisticated as in the conventional banking
world.
In line with this, Noraini et al. (2009) also found that more technically
advanced risk measurement approaches are perceived not to be widely used by
Islamic banks, except for the Internal-Based Rating System and Estimates of Worst
Case. The study concluded that most IFIs did not use sophisticated risk measure-
ment approaches as the IFIs are still new and do not have sufficient resources
and systems to use the more technically advanced techniques. Supporting this
argument is the study by Rosman and Abdul Rahman (2010), who concluded that
IFIs are using less technically advanced risk measurement approaches.
Khan and Ahmed (2001), on the other hand, found that the overall risk man-
agement processes in IFIs to be satisfactory. They apprehended, however, that this

--- Página 382 ---
366
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
may be because the banks that have relatively better risk management systems
responded to the questionnaires. The results for risk management process showed
that while Islamic banks have established a relatively good risk management envi-
ronment, the measuring, mitigating and monitoring processes and internal controls
need to be further upgraded. Khan and Ahmed’s study also identified the problems
that IFIs face in managing risks. These include lack of instruments (like short-term
financial assets and derivatives) and money markets. At the regulatory level, the
financial institutions apprehend that the legal system and regulatory framework is
not supportive to them. Results from a survey of 17 Islamic institutions from 10
different countries revealed that while Islamic banks have established a relatively
good risk management environment, the measuring, mitigating and monitoring
processes and internal controls need to be further upgraded. The results indicated
that the growth of the Islamic financial industry will, to a large extent, depend
on how bankers, regulators and Shari’ah scholars understand the inherent risks
arising in these institutions and create appropriate policies to cater to these needs.
Subsequently, the following sub-hypotheses were tested to identify whether
there is any statistically significant difference in the frequency of producing risk
measurement reports across various groups of respondents based on the selected
control variables.
H9-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to region.
H9-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents in
the use of risk measurement techniques according to the respondent’s
position.
H9-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to the nature of
the financial institution.
H9-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to the nature of
activities.
H9-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk measurement techniques according to accounting
standards.
As Table 8.56 depicts, at α = 0.05 the five sub-hypotheses are declined. This
means that statistically all the selected control variables play a role in the dif-
ference in utilising risk measurement tools. However, ‘Region’ and ‘Nature of
Financial Institution’ are the control variables with the most significant results and
hence these two variables are most essential to the difference in risk management

--- Página 383 ---
Contextualising the Findings
367
techniques among banks. Mean rankings show that conventional banks in rela-
tion to their regional location, concentrated outside of the GCC and Middle East,
use more advanced risk management techniques than Islamic banks. The region
‘Americas’ is the most advanced across all techniques, followed often by ‘Other’
or ‘Europe’. The rest of the regional samples include mostly Islamic banks; their
use of sophisticated risk measurements, however, is not as significant as in con-
ventional banks in the Americas and Europe.
RISK MITIGATION
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on risk mitigation issues facing IFIs by responding to the hypothesis set
in advance.
Hypothesis 10: Islamic banks use a number of risk mitigation tools that are
intended to be Shari’ah-compliant and that are less advanced than those
utilised by conventional banks.
Both the descriptive statistics and the qualitative interview analysis clearly
reflect that risk mitigation techniques in Islamic banking are less advanced than
those in conventional banking. This supports Hypothesis 10.
Risk mitigation is currently one of the most contentious issues in Islamic
banking. The unique nature of risks faced by Islamic banks, combined with the
restrictions added by Shari’ah, makes risk mitigation for Islamic banks a difficult
and complex process. There are risks that Islamic banks, like their conventional
counterparts, can manage and control through appropriate risk policies and con-
trols that do not conflict with the Shari’ah principles. However, there are other
risks that banks cannot eliminate and that can be reduced only by transferring to
or selling those risks in well-defined markets. These risks can generate unexpected
losses that need capital insulation, and hedging can help to restrict the impact of
unexpected loss. Traditionally in the conventional world risk-transfer techniques
include the use of derivatives for hedging, selling or buying of financial claims,
and changing borrowing terms. The challenge is, however, that most of the con-
ventional hedging tools so far do not comply with the Shari’ah requirements. This
causes IFIs to be faced with an additional array of risks particularly market and
credit risks. As explained in Chapter 3, there have been substantial efforts in devel-
oping Sharia’ah-compliant hedging instruments; however, much of this progress
remains localised with limited scope for cross-border application and further work
is still needed.
Until recently, it had been the opinion of most Shari’ah scholars that hedging
would fall into the category of speculation and uncertainty. In the last few

--- Página 384 ---
368
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
years, however, the increasing sophistication in Islamic banking products has
led some scholars to take the view that Islamic banks may be able to enter into
hedging arrangements provided that the hedging tool is in itself structured in a
Shari’ah-compliant manner. According to Khan (2010), “there is growing demand
for hedging and Shari’ah-compliant derivatives, which would be used merely for
hedging and not speculation”. Khandelwal (2008) also asserts that there has been
substantial development in finding ways to apply derivatives in Islamic finance to
reduce certain risks such as currency and commodity risks. For example, some
Shari’ah-compliant hedging instruments, such as profit rate swaps, have been
introduced in Malaysia. However, much of this progress remains localised with
limited scope for cross-border application and further work is still needed. The
empirical study conducted by Rosman and Abdul Rahman (2010) found that IFIs
are still lacking in the application of unique Shari’ah-compliant risk mitigation
techniques, while Ahmed and Khan (2007) believe that the potential of futures,
currency forwards, options and embedded options in risk management in Islamic
finance is tremendous.
One of the interviewees, Chowdhury (2010), argues that derivatives are
sophisticated instruments that can, if employed with care, enhance efficiency
in IFIs through risk mitigation, thereby making them more competitive as well
as appealing to customers. However, their application in Islamic finance is
surrounded by religious dogma and is highly controversial for reasons of specu-
lation and uncertainty, two practices banned under Shari’ah. There are varying
scholarly opinions in the world of fiqh and, due to this judicial fragmentation,
the final verdict on the legitimacy of derivatives varies between a total ban in
some countries and actual implementation (although on a limited scale) in others
(Chowdhury, 2010).
Another interviewee, Engel (2010), adds that the recent financial crisis,
in the opinion of many, including Shari’ah scholars, is blamed on the ‘spec-
ulative’ use of complex derivative instruments. The economic meltdown was
in fact due to a combination of several factors, primarily a lack of proper
risk monitoring and quantification mechanisms. The bubble in the derivatives
industry was attributed to a copycat phenomenon, whereby banks took on
more risk than they could possibly cope with, exceeding their liabilities many
times over and building inverted pyramid structures on their balance sheets.
The consequential seizure in the market has forced financial institutions to
drastically scale back their proprietary risk-taking and to revamp models, which
adds to the reluctance of Shari’ah scholars to permit the use of derivatives.
Thun (2010) agrees that despite their pivotal function, the use of derivatives in
emerging countries in general, and in the Islamic banking sector in particular,
has been limited, in part due to the absence of legal provisions, insufficient
technical frameworks, underdeveloped capital markets, and/or inadequate

--- Página 385 ---
Contextualising the Findings
369
accounting, regulatory and disclosure standards. Therefore, the use of derivatives
in Islamic banking requires an understanding of the distinction between hedging
and speculating.
As risk management and corporate governance in IFIs are already below par
relative to the rest of industry, the use of securitisation and derivatives offers con-
siderable scope for reducing IFIs’ risk exposures and thus improving their overall
risk profile (Smith, 2010).
Recently, highly skilled financial engineers in global conventional banks
owning Islamic windows, more advanced Islamic banks, economists and a few
Shari’ah scholars have combined efforts to develop Islamic derivative products.
For this, jurists have increasingly been working on khiar, arbun and wa’ad
concepts to turn them into contracts, as explained in Chapter 3. Although wa’ad
is still criticised from a conceptual perspective, in practice this instrument has
become a contractual promise, as it offers great flexibility, explains Thun (2010).
For instance, it allows for an FX forward profile to be emulated. The writer makes
a unilateral promise to buy or sell a particular amount of currency against another
currency on a predetermined date and at a predetermined rate. If the promise is
contractually agreed not to be binding, then the buyer chooses whether to enforce
the wa’ad or not in exchange for a non-refundable fee, which ends up becoming
equivalent to a put or call option (Thun, 2010).
Far from having a complete derivative supply, the trend in the Islamic finan-
cial industry is therefore to develop explicit Islamic derivative products. Through
Shari’ah-compliant engineering, currency forwards, call options on sukuk, secu-
rities or commodities, profit rate swaps, cross-currency rate swaps, forward rate
swaps and even total return swaps can be copied, at least conceptually, adds Lowe
(2010), one of the interviewees for this research. On the other hand, as previ-
ously discussed, if IFIs continue to mimic conventional banking products, they
will weaken the uniqueness of their value proposition and the powerful nature of
their natural factors of differentiation.
Risk mitigation techniques are inherently complex by nature and require a
well-thought-out regulatory framework for their management and application. For
instance, in order to promote and legalise the use of derivatives, large Islamic
banks in Malaysia are stepping forward in collaboration with the Malaysian Finan-
cial Market Association to establish standards in Shari’ah-compliant derivatives
to enhance liquidity and improve balance sheet management (Moody’s, 2011a).
This is in addition to the progress made by supervisory bodies like IFSB, IIFM,
AAOIFI and others.
It is interesting to investigate the findings further to determine whether there is
any statistically significant difference in the use of mitigation techniques accord-
ing to various control variables. Therefore, the following sub-hypotheses were
formulated.

--- Página 386 ---
370
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
H10-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to region.
H10-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to the respondent’s
position.
H10-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to the nature of the
financial institution.
H10-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to the nature of
activities.
H10-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents
in the use of risk mitigation techniques according to accounting
standards.
Table 8.59 shows that at α = 0.05 the five sub-hypotheses are rejected in favour
of the alternative hypothesis. This means that statistically all the selected con-
trol variables play a role in the difference in utilising risk mitigation techniques
among financial institutions. However, ‘Nature of Financial Institution’ is the con-
trol variable with the most significant p-value (0.00). Mean ranking in Table 8.60
shows that with the exception of Islamic swaps and Islamic currency forwards,
fully fledged Islamic banks fell behind Islamic subsidiaries in using all other risk
mitigation techniques. The latter group tends to benefit from the already devel-
oped risk mitigation platforms at their conventional parents. However, of notice is
that the difference in the value of mean ranking between the two groups is small,
which reflects that IFIs are progressing in the use of risk mitigation, but that still
the use of risk mitigation techniques in IFIs is not as developed as in conventional
banking.
ISLAMIC BANKING IN PRACTICE
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on practical issues in Islamic banking by responding to the hypothesis set
in advance.
Hypothesis 11: Most IFIs abandoned conservative risk management Shari’ah
principles in favour of copying conventional structures.
Descriptive statistics support Hypothesis 11 as most respondents believe that
IFIs should stop simply mimicking conventional finance, as the trend seemed to be

--- Página 387 ---
Contextualising the Findings
371
toward trying to duplicate what conventional banks did. Everyone assumed there
was a single model of banking and they were copying the Wall Street model – a
model that had more or less collapsed. Before the recent financial meltdown, the
Islamic banking industry came under the criticism that it had not been able to
match all the existing conventional products with Islamic equivalents. In hindsight,
if IFIs continued on the same track as their conventional peers, they would have
been prone to the same risks. Hence Islamic banks have been largely spared the
subprime crisis.
Likewise, interviewees are of the view that IFIs will not achieve their objec-
tives by simply mimicking conventional products. While the ideals of Islamic
finance offer some compelling ideas, the reality is that much of Islamic finance
today is focused on replicating the conventional system. This provides support for
Hypothesis 11. Chowdhury (2010) argues that this reminds us that IFIs will not
achieve their objectives by simply mimicking conventional products. If scholars
had allowed simple mimicking without checks, IFIs would have been as exposed
to subprime as the conventional banks are.
In theory, the Islamic financial system is definitely more resilient to economic
shocks than the debunked Wall Street model, but unfortunately theory is a long
way from fact in current financial practice. Practitioners of Islamic finance to date
have been mimicking conventional products. This mimicking has resulted in a
close correlation between the two systems. “People all over the world have been
paying attention to Islamic finance, not necessarily because it would have solu-
tions to all these problems; but because it is institutionalised and has embraced
conservative principles” (Warde, 2009). Certainly, Islamic banks have partially
ignored this conservatism by simply mimicking conventional banks, but still the
fundamental principles of Islamic finance have saved Islamic banks from many of
the conventional financial woes.
The crisis created a golden opportunity for Islamic finance to present itself to
the world as a better, more sustainable financial system. Dr Mohammed Mahmoud
Awan, a leading scholar and Dean at the Malaysia-based International Centre for
Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF), thinks that the recent global crisis has
opened many windows of opportunity for Islamic finance as it has the capacity
and capability to bring stability to the market (Awan, 2008). However, the defaults
of sukuk in the Middle Eastern market, and the frauds that occurred in several
IFIs, have downplayed this notion. According to the proceedings of the SC–OCIS
Roundtable and Forum (2010), there were failures of credit risk assessment and
over-concentration of risks in real estate assets; there was lack of transparency;
there were family-owned businesses that were perceived to have government sup-
port (in some of the sukuk); in some areas, there was even inadequate regulation;
and in a recent case there was also inappropriate use of a legal defence. The indus-
try needs to work together to remove the negative perceptions that are seen to

--- Página 388 ---
372
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
somewhat impact it. So, it is important to subscribe to the values of Shari’ah, to
build robust risk management systems and IT systems, and to have greater trans-
parency and greater practice of Shari’ah governance.
The following sub-hypotheses were formulated in order to identify whether
there are any significant differences across various selected groups in relation to
the respective control variables.
The results of the hypotheses testing can be seen in Tables 8.61 and 8.62.
H11-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about the current practices in Islamic banking according
to the nature of the financial institution.
The results suggest that the null hypothesis is rejected, which implies that
‘Nature of Financial Institution’ is a statistically significant determining factor.
Mean rankings revealed that Islamic bankers are more critical of the current
practices in the industry than their conventional peers. This could be explained
by the fact that Islamic bankers are more educated about the underlying princi-
ples of Islamic finance and have a better understanding of current structures than
conventional bankers.
H11-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about the current practices in Islamic banking according
to region.
The results suggest that the null hypothesis is rejected and the alternative
hypothesis is accepted. There are significant ‘regional’ differences among respon-
dents’ views.
H11-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
perceptions about the current practices in Islamic banking according
to the respondent’s position.
For this sub-hypothesis, the test results were unable to reject the null
hypothesis, meaning that the impact of respondent’s position causes no significant
difference.
THE FUTURE OF ISLAMIC BANKING
This section aims to provide a discussion through further interpretation of the
results on the future of Islamic banking by responding to the hypothesis set in
advance.

--- Página 389 ---
Contextualising the Findings
373
Hypothesis 12: Islamic banking has great potential to become a strong alter-
native financing system provided that it goes back to its roots.
Evidence from the questionnaire data analysis indicates that Hypothesis
12 is supported. Most respondents reckon that Islamic banking has benign
potential provided that it goes back to its roots. Both Islamic and non-Islamic
bankers (including Islamic subsidiaries, conventional banks and others) also
consider improved risk management and mitigation practices among the top
priorities IFIs should focus on in their development plans. The future of Islamic
banking will highly depend on risk architecture and how the industry will develop
instruments that enhance liquidity; improve ALM and risk management; and
develop Islamically acceptable risk-hedging tools. This questionnaire identified
the inadequacy of risk management practices by IFIs that may threaten their
sustainability especially during financial crises. Adequate resources need to be
devoted to risk identification and measurement, as well as risk management
techniques, so as to be able to develop innovative risk mitigation and hedging
instruments suitable to IFIs.
Interview findings similarly provide strong support to Hypothesis 12, as inter-
viewees almost unanimously agree that there is now an opportunity for Islamic
banking to thrive as it has the potential to contribute to a more stable economy. “We
have all learnt a lot over the past few years about how to allow the Islamic finance
market to mature. There’s now an opportunity for Islamic finance to thrive”, says
Chowdhury (2010), one of the interviewees. Many interviewees, particularly con-
sultants, researchers and Shari’ah scholars, revealed that in its current form Islamic
banking has little to offer in terms of long-lasting solutions. The solution ultimately
has to be a moral not a material one. Islamic banking needs to aim for a truly alter-
native vision based on the ethical and moral safeguards within authentic Islamic
concepts, together with improving risk management and mitigation techniques,
enhancing liquidity management and reducing concentrations.
The recommendations for the future of Islamic banking provided by both sur-
vey respondents and interviewees were numerous; however, this section focuses
on the most important ones highlighted by most respondents and those that scored
high mean rankings.
The continuing rapid growth of demand for Islamic financial services is
clearly good news for Islamic banks. At the same time, it also presents some
challenges, as the banks need to invest in upgrading their risk management
capabilities in line with the more complex and larger projects into which they are
entering. Given the unparalleled market conditions, the risk management process
is going through fundamental and significant changes. Islamic banks need to
ensure they are prepared for the constantly changing environment, and they also
need to get involved in those changes to have their say.

--- Página 390 ---
374
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
While the Islamic banking model limited the chances of surviving the crisis
unscathed, there is still strong growth potential for the industry. “After enduring the
recent financial shocks, some IFIs are now conducting internal reviews and looking
more deeply into ways to improve and diversify their business model”, explains
Engel (2010). For instance, efforts are being made to better organise professional
off balance sheet asset-management activities targeting high-net-worth individu-
als and institutional investors who require Shari’ah-compliant placements, across
a wider range of asset classes. Unicorn Investment Bank, for instance, typically
focuses on general corporate finance, including advisory, mergers and acquisi-
tions, debt and equity capital markets, structured finance and brokerage. First
Energy Bank, an energy finance specialist, will likely follow the same path. The
business evolution of Khaleeji Commercial Bank is also relevant as it is trying to
consolidate its investment banking services with a more robust commercial bank-
ing platform. “Overall, I believe that the strategic move of some IFIs acquiring
larger, more diversified and established Islamic banks offers the most promising
potential” adds Lowe (2010).
Going forward, it is expected that lower volumes, shrinking margins and dete-
riorating asset quality will all weigh on IFIs’ profitability and ultimately their
capitalisation. However, the impact will be more manageable than for their con-
ventional peers. Fortunately, Islamic banks have been very profitable in the past
and have therefore accumulated large amounts of capital, making them capable of
absorbing these sorts of shocks. As previously discussed, conventional banks have
had a greater appetite for exotic asset classes than IFIs. In that sense, asset-quality
deterioration at conventional banks may be more pronounced. In addition, conven-
tional peer banks used to be less well capitalised and less liquid, and therefore will
find it more difficult to book new business in the current market conditions. “To
grow today, a bank must have accumulated excess liquidity and capital in the past:
most Islamic banks have, some conventional peer banks haven’t”, says Damak
(2010) during the interview for this research.
According to the latest findings (Moody’s, 2011a; Fitch Ratings, 2011), IFIs
are already tightening their belts and using their surplus liquidity deposits to meet
their basic financing needs and to replace recent deposit withdrawals. Most IFIs
have placed property-based projects on hold because of declining demand in the
real estate sector and foreign direct investment. There have been financial stimulus
packages supplied by governments to assist IFIs with their liquidity constraints.
Those banks that are on the brink of liquidity crunch and that have been unsuccess-
ful in attracting additional deposits will either have to issue more sukuk or merge
with their financially stronger counterparts.
Islamic banks, organisations and regulators are working to address these chal-
lenges. The rapid developments are likely to continue. Financial institutions in
countries such as Bahrain, the UAE and Malaysia have been gearing up for more

--- Página 391 ---
Contextualising the Findings
375
Shari’ah-compliant financial instruments and structured finance – on both the asset
and liability sides. At the same time, the leading financial centres, such as London,
New York and Singapore, are making significant progress in establishing the legal
and prudential foundations to accommodate Islamic finance side by side with the
conventional financial system. Many of the largest Western banks, through their
Islamic windows, have become active and sometimes leading players in financial
innovation, through new Shari’ah-compliant financial instruments that attempt to
alleviate many of the current constraints such as a weak systemic liquidity infras-
tructure. More conventional banks are expected to offer Islamic products, enticed
by enormous profit opportunities and also ample liquidity, especially across the
Middle East.
New product innovation is also driven by domestic banks’ interest in risk
diversification. With a large number of new Islamic banks, especially across the
Middle East and Asia, diversification of products enables banks to offer the right
product mix to more sophisticated clients. A few banks are already active across
different jurisdictions, and this trend is certainly going to continue in the near
future, possibly with some consolidation (Moody’s, 2011a).
Thun (2010) argues that just before the crisis Islamic banking was on
the edge of a new era that would bring Islamic finance closer to the PLS,
asset-backed and real-economy financing ideals, with innovations introduced by
Shari’ah-compliant investment banking. Sometime before the crisis, institutions
like GFH, Arcapita Bank, Unicorn Investment Bank and TID started moving
away from pure banking intermediation and into more sophisticated invest-
ment/merchant banking lines of business, like private equity, asset-management,
brokerage, infrastructure and structured real estate finance, as well as advisory,
corporate and project finance – thereby laying the groundwork for innovation
within Islamic banking. The industry was on the edge of moving beyond the
focus on raising cheap murabahah or wakala deposits (so as to recycle them
into safe, stable and expensive retail and corporate loans) and adopting a greater
emphasis on risk-taking instead. However, the onset of the financial liquidity
crisis prevented the dawning of this new era, adds Thun (2010).
On the regulatory front, whereas the growth history and forecasts are a source
of optimism for the Islamic finance industry, the growing regulation in the wake
of the recent credit crisis offers a newer set of challenges. There will be material,
substantive change to the regulatory environment under which banks and other
financial institutions operate (PWC, 2009). Regulators across the world are set to
introduce a new era of tightened regulation for the financial sector in general. Cen-
tral banks and financial regulatory authorities around the world are the subject of
intense criticism for failure to predict and check the global financial crisis. Issues
are being framed (particularly in the areas of risk management, liquidity and cap-
ital requirements), consultation papers drafted, and stakeholders’ opinions sought

--- Página 392 ---
376
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
for the introduction of a new and tougher regime of banking and financial regula-
tions. “Islamic banks should get involved and should be proactive”, asserts Lowe
(2010). The IFSB has moved ahead with efforts aimed at fostering the soundness,
risk management, capital standards and stability of the Islamic financial services
industry through more standardised regulation.
According to Khan, S. (2009), as it stands Islamic banking regulations are
framed from a conventional base and as long as the conventional yardstick is
applied, certain structures, such as the mudarabah and musharakah products, will
likely continue to be treated as higher risk. While some of these products may
actually have a higher risk profile, concepts of risk-sharing could be ingrained
further through the development of more profit- and risk-sharing mudarabah and
musharakah products. This should be driven by both regulators and Islamic bank-
ing practitioners who, together, need to facilitate a transparent explanation of the
risks to the customer as well as enable better risk allocation between Islamic
banks and the customer. The current regulatory infrastructure for IFIs is more or
less largely voluntary, such that very few penalties apply to institutions that do
not follow the AAOIFI Standards, or any other set of Shari’ah-related rules or
standards. Until a regulatory system is meaningfully enforced where penalties of
non-compliance actually hurt, it is rather futile to expect IFIs to change any of
their past patterns of behaviour. Such enforcement is largely dependent on both
political will and vision (Khan, S., 2009).
Islamic banking will continue to grow at a faster rate than conventional
banking because of the inevitable de-leveraging of the global system but also
because the roots of Islamic banking are in the Gulf and South East Asia; these
are regions with higher growth rates, expanding populations and abundance of
natural resources especially energy (Eedle, 2009). Several IFIs are therefore
in a position to gain market share at the expense of conventional peers, which
have been weakened by toxic subprime assets. However, for Islamic banking
to become a true global alternative to the existing Western system, there are a
number of actions that must be considered, as explained earlier. The main issue is
the development of products that are more in line with the spirit of Shari’ah and
that do not just replicate conventional equivalents.
However, the political and social upheaval throughout the Middle East
will undoubtedly have direct and indirect impacts on IFIs in general, and on
those located in the Middle East in particular. The ability of local governments
to support Islamic banking and to bail out financial institutions remains to be
assessed after the scissors effect of rising oil prices and local geo-political
unrest.
Subsequently, the following sub-hypotheses were formulated in order to iden-
tify whether there are any significant differences across various groups in the
respective control variables. The results of the hypotheses testing are summarised
in Table 8.63.

--- Página 393 ---
Contextualising the Findings
377
H12-1: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according to
region.
The K-W test results suggest that the null hypothesis is accepted and the
alternative hypothesis is rejected, which implies that, statistically, there are no
significant differences in the respondents’ views across various regions.
H12-2: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according to respon-
dent’s position.
Similarly, the results suggest that the null hypothesis is accepted indicating
that, statistically, this control variable plays no significant role in impacting the
respondents’ opinions.
H12-3: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according to the
nature of the financial institution.
For this hypothesis, the testing results decline the null hypothesis, mean-
ing that, statistically, there are significant differences among respondents’ views
according to the nature of financial institution. ‘Organic growth in home mar-
ket’ and ‘Standardisation’ had p-values of 0.036 and 0.015 respectively, which are
lower than the critical p-value of 0.05. However, examining the mean rankings of
these two strategies according to ‘Nature of Financial Institution’, as summarised
in Table 8.64, did not identify a particular pattern.
H12-4: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according to the
nature of activities.
The K-W results were unable to reject the null hypothesis, indicating that,
statistically, the variable ‘Nature of Activities’ plays no significant role in impact-
ing the respondents’ opinions.
H12-5: There are no statistically significant differences among respondents’
recommended growth strategies for Islamic banks according to
accounting standards.
The testing results accept the null hypothesis indicating that this control vari-
able is, statistically, not significant in influencing the respondents’ opinions.

--- Página 394 ---
378
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Hypothesis 13: Perceptions of Islamic and conventional bankers differ sig-
nificantly. Islamic bankers are more biased toward their business model,
and vice versa.
Finally, Hypothesis 13 is a general hypothesis not linked to a specific part of
the questionnaire. The researcher expected the perceptions of Islamic bankers to
be biased in favour of their business model, and those of the conventional bankers
to be biased against Islamic banking. Hypothesis 13 is declined as the findings
from both the quantitative and qualitative analyses reflected a high degree of cor-
relation between the responses of the two groups. However, differences generally
existed between the responses of bankers and non-bankers. Non-bankers have a
different risk perception than bankers; this is because bankers, whether Islamic
or non-Islamic, have hands-on experience and better understanding of the Islamic
banking model and its risk architecture than non-bankers, who tend to be more
academic in their approach.
More specifically, the various K-W tests presented in Chapter 8 gener-
ally show that there is no significant difference in perception levels between
respondents from stand-alone Islamic banks and Islamic subsidiaries. Initially
it was expected that respondents from stand-alone Islamic banks would have a
stronger perception compared to those from Islamic subsidiaries for two reasons:
firstly, stand-alone Islamic banks have been in existence much longer than
Islamic subsidiaries, and, secondly, the respondents from stand-alone Islamic
banks have the advantage of dealing with only Islamic banking products and
services whereas Islamic subsidiaries need to operate side by side with their
respective conventional counterpart in sharing the same operating platforms and
buildings. Nevertheless, the results have indicated otherwise. Some differences
could be spotted between the perceptions of conventional banks and stand-alone
Islamic banks, and more noticeably between the perceptions of bankers and
non-bankers, represented by ‘Others’. Examining the mean rankings for different
questions confirmed that there is an observed pattern, which can be explained by
market realities.
CONCLUSION AND SUMMARY
The current chapter is intended to combine, integrate and discuss the main
results and findings from all three empirical chapters, combined with knowledge
developed from the literature review, and to provide the basis for an overall
conclusion.
To render the results in a more systematic manner, Table 10.1 attempts to
bring together the results of the testing of all the main hypotheses.

--- Página 395 ---
Contextualising the Findings
379
TABLE 10.1
Summary of the hypotheses testing decisions
Hypothesis
Questionnaires
Decision
Interviews
Decision
The main risks facing Islamic banks are
reputational risk, Shari’ah-non-compliance risk,
asset–liability management risk, liquidity risk
and concentration risk.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Islamic bankers prefer mark-up based contracts
and shy away from profit-sharing contracts.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Profit-sharing contracts are perceived as more
risky than mark-up based contracts in the
Islamic finance industry.
Accept H0
Majority approve
There is no substantial difference between risk
management in Islamic banking and
conventional banking.
Reject H0
Majority disapprove
Capital requirements levels should be lower in
IFIs than in conventional banks.
Reject H0
Majority disapprove
Basel II was drafted with conventional banking
very much in mind. IFIs should follow their
own standards, e.g. IFSB principles on capital
adequacy.
Reject H0
Majority disapprove
Islamic banking is more resilient to economic
shocks than conventional banking but not
recession proof.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Not many Islamic banks use the more
technically advanced risk measurement and
reporting techniques.
Accept H0
Majority approve
The use of risk measurement techniques is less
advanced among Islamic banks than among
their conventional peers.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Islamic banks use a number of risk mitigation
tools that are intended to be Shari’ah-
compliant and that are less advanced than those
utilised by conventional banks.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Most IFIs abandoned conservative risk mana-
gement Shari’ah principles in favour of copying
conventional structures.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Islamic banking has great potential to become a
strong alternative financing system provided
that it goes back to its roots.
Accept H0
Majority approve
Perceptions of Islamic and conventional bankers
differ significantly. Islamic bankers are more
biased toward their business model, and vice
versa.
Reject H0
Majority disapprove

--- Página 396 ---
380
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
As can be seen in Table 10.1, for the 13 hypotheses, nine null-hypotheses were
accepted, while the alternative null-hypotheses were accepted for the remaining
four hypotheses.
Based on the decisions of the hypotheses testing, the main findings and impli-
cations of this study will be presented in Chapter 11, together with recommenda-
tions for areas in which future research appears to be desirable. Chapter 11 also
discusses future directions of risk management in Islamic banking.

--- Página 397 ---
CHAPTER11
Conclusion and Research
Recommendations
T
his final chapter summarises the main results and presents the conclusion of
the book. It brings together all the findings and ideas discussed throughout this
research. To reiterate, this study was undertaken with the objective of evaluat-
ing the contemporary risk management practices in Islamic banking. In meeting
this broad objective, the views and opinions of the sampled Islamic banking pro-
fessionals were obtained through a survey questionnaire and in-depth interviews.
The results of the survey and interviews were analysed and compared with the
theoretical framework and the related literature.
This chapter briefly recapitulates the salient conclusions derived from the
findings of this research. In addition, it also presents the main policy and practical
recommendations for enhancing risk culture and architecture in Islamic bank-
ing. Finally, the research limitations and suggested future research topics will be
presented.
SUMMARY OF THE RESEARCH
As laid down in the introductory chapter (Chapter 1), the main aim of this research
was to investigate the perceptions and views of professional bankers and financiers
one way or another involved in the provision of Islamic financial and banking prod-
ucts across different regions about risk management in Islamic banking, with the
objective of mapping out the various issues related to risk through the perceptions
of the participants, namely bankers, financiers and scholars.
The study, hence, consists of two major sections, namely background and
empirical work. The first five chapters are the foundational chapters for the next
six chapters, the latter forming the empirical part of the book. The first chapter
introduces the main research questions and states the research aim and objec-
tives as well as explaining the rationale for choosing the research topic. It also
briefly discusses the research hypotheses, and the selected research methodology.
381

--- Página 398 ---
382
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Chapter 2 covers, among other topics, the systemic importance of the Islamic
banking industry and its potential growth. An overview of the various concepts
of risk and the industry standards of risk management techniques are discussed in
Chapter 3 along with the unique risks facing Islamic financial institutions (IFIs).
This chapter represents the main chapter in the literature review part of the book.
Chapter 4 looks at capital adequacy rules for IFIs in a financial world dominated
by the Basel standards, while Chapter 5 analyses the roots of the recent finan-
cial crisis and its implications for Islamic banking by making reference to the risk
management nature of the financial crisis.
The second part of the book is concerned with the empirical work and the
findings thereof. Chapter 6, which is the first chapter of this part, deals with the
research design and methodology. In essence, it is about the primary data collec-
tion and administration process, covering the different phases of that process and
dwelling on its important aspects, such as the research questions, the hypotheses
and the relevance of the selected research methodologies to the research ques-
tions. For the empirical part of the book, the primary data assembled through the
use of the research methods of questionnaire surveys and in-depth interviews are
utilised. Chapter 7 is the beginning of the statistical analysis of the survey ques-
tionnaire employing mainly descriptive analyses and Chi-Square tests as well as
the more basic frequency and percentage tables. Chapter 8 is the main primary
quantitative data analysis, presenting the findings from inferential statistical tests
such as Kruskall-Wallis (K-W), factor analysis, MANOVA multivariate analysis
of variance, and Chi-Square tests. This chapter, to a certain extent, answers the
main research hypotheses and their sub-hypotheses, as the information presented
in various sections of the chapter suggests. Chapter 9 is the qualitative analysis part
in which the responses given by the interviewees are analysed through a coding
analysis. However, more detailed discussion of the findings of both quantitative
and qualitative analyses is handled in Chapter 10, which combines, integrates and
discusses the main findings from all the empirical chapters, within the context of
the existing literature, to provide a basis for an overall conclusion.
Finally, this chapter contains the conclusion and recommendations as already
explained and also summarises the research findings and the proposed policy
implications as well as the research limitations and further research topics.
REFLECTING ON THE RESEARCH FINDINGS
As discussed in Chapter 1, risk management in Islamic banking is one of the main
issues as well as one of the most controversial. Although progress has been made
across the industry over the past few years, Islamic banks still face significant
challenges in relation to measuring and managing risks. At the same time, risk

--- Página 399 ---
Conclusion and Research Recommendations
383
management is getting more attention all over the world due to the recent financial
crisis. Within this context, it goes without saying that, for most IFIs, risk manage-
ment presents specific challenges. The study therefore investigates the controver-
sial question of whether Islamic banks are more or less risky than conventional
banks. This research answers the identified research questions, not only based on
conceptual research but more importantly using empirical evidence from the mar-
ket place by focusing on the practical side of risk management in Islamic banking.
It should be noted that this research is practical doctoral research that fills
the research gap regarding risk management in Islamic banking by investigating
the perceptions and attitudes of different categories of Islamic banking practition-
ers toward the unique characteristics of risk management in Islamic banking from
empirical evidence. This book fills the gap by taking the research one step fur-
ther, by integrating theoretical concepts with the practical reality in a socially
constructed manner through the opinions and perceptions of the participants.
Based on the findings in this study, it is obvious that Islamic banks face a
number of challenges in terms of risk management. The entanglement of credit,
market and operational risk in each contract type used by Islamic banks in their
daily operations, as well as displaced commercial risks attached to the incentive
to serve Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts (PSIA) holders with returns at least
comparable to similar conventional deposits, are two of the main constraints IFIs
need to cope with. In addition, as indicated by the findings in this research, in
the absence of a wide pool of Shari’ah-compliant, sufficiently liquid investment
vehicles (especially in fixed income), Islamic banks find it difficult to manage their
balance sheet from an asset–liability management (ALM) perspective, especially
liquidity and margin-rate risk.
As the findings depict, Islamic banks’ funding mix tends to be imbalanced,
with the dominance of deposits, PSIAs and equity making their funding profile
predominantly short-term at a time when the maturity of their asset classes is
widening. To mitigate nascent maturity mismatches, some IFIs have started issuing
medium-term sukuk to lengthen the maturity profile of their funding, but sukuk still
account for only a small portion of IFIs’ total liabilities, as discussed in Chapter 3.
Subordinated sukuk and hybrid instruments have not yet been used; these are more
expensive funding sources and incentives to issue them are limited given the abun-
dance of capital among most IFIs. The lack of liquidity and viable alternatives,
combined with the competitive disadvantage, hamper IFIs and may even create a
liquidity crisis. To overcome the shortcomings of the Islamic money market, many
investment banks are currently designing complex new products, compliant with
Shari’ah requirements. It remains to be seen whether these new solutions will
obtain widespread Shari’ah-compliant status in the Islamic finance community,
and generate enough demand for a functional Islamic money market to develop.
To help manage their liquidity, IFIs will have to develop creative funding strategies

--- Página 400 ---
384
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
and improve their internal capabilities to understand and forecast their liquidity
needs.
In addition, the research findings identify that IFIs face other challenges from
weak corporate governance practice to lack of standardisation in accounting and
Shari’ah standards, and high concentration risk. In fact, IFIs show heavy concen-
trations across the board, by name, sector, geography and business lines.
Political risk was ignored by both questionnaire respondents and interviewees
in this study; only a few respondents recognised it as a major risk affecting Islamic
banking. However, the lesson from the recent political unrest and revolutions in
the Middle East is that political risk matters. There is no doubt that the politi-
cal and social upheaval throughout the Middle East will have direct and indirect
impacts on IFIs in general and on those located in the Middle East in particular, as
discussed in Chapter 10. The outflow of funds and exit of foreign investors, and
the inability of governments to support Islamic banking and to bail out financial
institutions remain to be assessed after the scissors effect of rising oil prices and
local geo-political unrest.
The literature review reveals that Basel II was drafted with conventional bank-
ing largely in mind. Previous researchers also argue that Basel II is primarily for
conventional banks and has limited applicability for Islamic banking. However,
empirical evidence from this study found that market practitioners believe that with
some adaptations Basel II could be applied to Islamic banks and that the Islamic
Financial Services Board (IFSB) could play an important role in this context.
In brief, empirical findings from this study identified weaknesses and vul-
nerabilities among IFIs in the areas of risk management and governance. Risk
management, monitoring, reporting and mitigation need to be upgraded across
the whole Islamic banking industry. This study shows that the difficulties IFIs are
currently faced with mostly stem from risk management failures, characterised by
a very low degree of diversification, preference for illiquidity, an absence of finan-
cial flexibility and imbalanced funding strategies. This highlights the significance
of risk management for the growth of the whole Islamic banking industry.
The findings in this research also show that although IFIs have shown
resilience, they are not immune from economic shocks. Empirical evidence
shows that Islamic banking is expected to emerge stronger from the crisis,
provided some conditions are met, such as ‘further innovation’, ‘enhanced
transparency’, ‘more robust risk management architecture and culture’, and,
above all, ‘enhanced Shari’ah compliance’. Broadly speaking, Islamic banking
had a relatively ‘mild crisis’ in that it suffered less damage as a result of the global
economic and financial turmoil of the past few years than conventional banking.
Of course there were exceptions: Dubai, with its high debt and open economy,
was the main regional casualty as well as the private sectors of some other Gulf
countries which were bruised as their credit bubbles popped. In general IFIs have

--- Página 401 ---
Conclusion and Research Recommendations
385
maintained relative stability despite the global financial crisis thanks to ample
liquidity, safe debts and high profit margins. However, this situation will not
continue for long. Islamic banks need to reform at different levels – product,
operational and institutional – to be successful. They have been lucky so far, and
perhaps they will learn from the difficulties faced by conventional banks.
Many studies including this one indicate that IFIs tend to shy away from
equity- and partnership-based instruments for several reasons, such as the inher-
ent riskiness and additional costs of monitoring such investments, low appetite for
risk and lack of innovation. This unwillingness to take on risk reflects the lack
of transparency in the Islamic banking system, which dampens confidence and
trust among investors and market participants. The result is that depositors and
investors become more risk averse, and so banks become even more risk averse,
thus creating a vicious circle which results in severe financial and economic crises.
The original concept of Islamic financing is undoubtedly in favour of equity
participation rather than creation of debt, because it is only equity that brings an
equitable and balanced distribution of wealth in society. However, the practice
is very different from the theory. Practitioners of Islamic finance have to date
been mimicking conventional products. This mimicking has resulted in a close
correlation between the two systems. These deviations between theory and
practice mean that the system is not functioning at its full potential and has
adapted itself to a limited functionality. In fact, due to these deviations, the
Islamic banking system is exposed to additional risks that it is not supposed to
be exposed to, as explained in the previous chapters. This dichotomy between
the ideals of Islamic banking morals and the realities, combined with the lack of
advanced risk management and mitigation techniques, render Islamic banking
more risky than the debunked conventional banking model, instead of its being
a safe haven. There is a growing realisation that the long-term sustainable
growth of Islamic banking will depend largely on the development of proper risk
management architecture. Islamic banking could be a safe haven only when its
broader principles on a macro-level are entirely followed by all participants. In
other words, when short-term risks and longer-term stability are put together and
optimised, the outlook for the Islamic banking industry looks less risky than its
critics claim.
Islamic banking, so far, as it is being practised does not appear to be a gen-
uine reflection of the aspirational expectations of fiqh requirements for Islamic
finance. Islamic banking benefits, when measured by conventional yardsticks, do
not amount to much. Therefore, IFIs and all participants in Islamic finance should
strictly follow the rules of Shari’ah, regardless of whether the benefits of such rules
are apparent or measurable. There is a particular logic and morality to Shari’ah
principles, which Islamic banking practitioners will see only if they stop trying to
shoe-horn them into conventional product structures.

--- Página 402 ---
386
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Market discipline and transparency rules have been the pride of Western
financial systems for decades. The irony is that those rules have consistently
failed whenever tested by severe financial stress. On the other hand, more resilient
and ethical rules have long existed in the roots of Shari’ah finance. Some of
the previously criticised inherent constraints – imposed on Islamic banks by
Shari’ah – have proved to be conservative risk management tools that enabled
most Islamic banks to navigate the crisis. Limited availability of hedging tools,
prohibition of derivatives and speculation, the linking of risks to assets, and extra
liquidity and capital buffers are all examples of built-in principles that were
criticised by opponents of Islamic banking as burdens on profitability prior to the
crisis. with hindsight they proved to be important strengths that ensured stability,
as explained in Chapter 5. From a risk management perspective, Shari’ah can
provide a moral compass that guides risk takers as to which risks are acceptable
and which are not.
RESEARCH IMPLICATIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
As mentioned in Chapter 1, the present study is motivated by an observation
that there is a gap between the theoretical aspects of risk management in Islamic
banking and the practical behaviour of industry practitioners – a fact that has
been articulated by many in different formats. Therefore, the results of this study
provide positive implications and recommendations for various stakeholders in
pursuing the desired ultimate objectives of the Islamic banking system.
It should, furthermore, be stated that this research also contributes to the
body of existing academic research in terms of opening up new areas of study; in
addition, it renders valuable input to industry practitioners for improving current
regulations and practice related to risk management, reporting, mitigation, capital
adequacy and development strategies. The findings in this study may also prove
very useful for promoting financial stability from a risk management perspective.
Policy Implications
The results of the research have policy implications for regulators, policy makers,
Shari’ah scholars, practitioners, academics and institutional stakeholders. In addi-
tion, regulatory bodies such as central banks, AAOIFI, IIFM and IFSB may find
the results useful for assessing the level of adequacy of risk reporting in Islamic
banks and for developing new guidelines for risk management and mitigation. The
findings provide evidence which enables the IFSB and regulators to pursue policies
that promote transparency with regard to risk management. The general findings

--- Página 403 ---
Conclusion and Research Recommendations
387
in this study, if combined with other studies, will have important implications for
setting up risk reporting standards for IFIs.
In addition, the risk perception trends identified by this study across different
countries, regions and other categories of respondents could be beneficial for mar-
keting and growth strategies of IFIs across borders. These findings could therefore
be of great help to regulators in understanding regional and institutional differ-
ences among banks.
ThefindingsalsoshowthatIFIsarestillfarbehindcurrentbestpracticeinterms
of risk management methods, transparency and disclosure. This has implications
particularly for PSIA holders because, as mentioned earlier, they require adequate
risk information to monitor their investment due to profit-sharing arrangements.
Furthermore, the perceptions of Islamic banking professionals about Basel II
and III and their applicability to Islamic banking could be useful to regional reg-
ulators and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) in drafting and
applying the Basel III standards, which tend to neglect the unique characteristics
of Islamic banks. The failings of Basel II and the market expectations resulting
from Basel III, with their wide implications for banks, regulators, consultants and
researchers, were thoroughly discussed in this study.
IFIs also need to make use of the findings in this research to improve their risk
management architectures and culture. By doing so, they would be able to improve
their funding structures and reduce their inherent risks, and hence improve their
ratings, market transactions pricing and overall profitability. Moreover, from a
risk management perspective, the recommended growth strategies discussed in
this book could be of great help to Islamic banks particularly during the current
turbulent economic climate.
Itisimpossibletolayoutonebeststrategybutvariousstrategiescanbeadopted
to achieve profitable growth and to enhance IFIs’ competitiveness. It is worthwhile
to point out that, while asset growth is important, appropriate systems and infras-
tructures to address risk issues need to be in place to support sustainable growth.
Therefore, strategic focus needs to be timed, with risk management being imple-
mented first, followed by growth. Finally, regulators, shareholders, management,
employees and customers all have roles in shaping an organisation’s strategies.
The main recommendations of the book can be summarised as follows:
(i) Consolidation:
There are far too many IFIs to serve this growing market, but none has the
size necessary to compete on a global stage.
(ii) Diversification:
Consolidation will also help IFIs to gain from the benefits of diversifica-
tion across different geographical territories, sectors and industries.

--- Página 404 ---
388
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
Currently, Islamic banks are not fully exploiting the benefits that
come from both geographic and product diversification. On the asset
side, diversification can reduce credit, concentration and market risks,
in addition to reducing the variance in the returns that accrue to
claimholders. Diversification on the liabilities side can reduce displaced
commercial risk and withdrawal risk and help to improve liquidity gaps
and ALM.
In addition, most IFIs need to diversify their activities from what is mostly a
real estate and standard lending play, to offer a comprehensive service
suite, including advanced treasury services, innovative asset manage-
ment, balance sheet management and securitisation services.
(iii) Liquidity enhancement:
There is a growing realisation that the sustainable growth of Islamic banking
will depend largely on the development of well-functioning secondary
markets and the introduction of liquidity-enhancing products.
(iv) Investing in risk management infrastructure:
The establishment of risk assessment and measurement systems often
becomes an expensive proposition as it requires sophisticated models,
software packages and technologies, and skilled human resources who
can understand the nature of the risks and prepare models accordingly.
Given the small size of IFIs, establishing such frameworks at the
organisation level may not be possible. IFIs and supervisory authorities
should work together to find a reasonable solution to the problem. Risk
management solutions should not be considered an extra cost but should
be viewed as an investment for building a knowledge base of superior
quality entrepreneurs and projects. As Islamic banks should have learnt
from the crisis, the painful cost of inadequate risk management is being
demonstrated every day.
(v) Innovation:
Islamic banking might find it difficult to innovate because it exists in a
deeply-rooted conventional system. However, if the industry is not inno-
vating authentic products according to genuine Shari’ah principles, it
might end up with the same failures as conventional banking. At this
point in time, there is no real value proposition offered by Islamic banks.
While Islamic banking is considered to have a bright future, mimicking
conventional banking is mostly considered as causing Islamic banking to
lose opportunities to serve markets and communities around the world.
(vi) Back to roots: a Shari’ah-based approach versus Shari’ah compliance
Shari’ah compliance is inherently and systemically significant to Islamic
banking. However, developments indicate that Shari’ah-based solutions

--- Página 405 ---
Conclusion and Research Recommendations
389
should be better placed in appreciating opportunities available. It is
clear through experience that any divergence from Shari’ah principles
exposes the IFI to a wide range of additional risks at different levels,
as discussed in this book, thus rendering Islamic banking more risky
than the conventional model. Considering that the current practice is
very much shaped by Shari’ah compliance, which has exposed Islamic
banks and finance to further risks, it is hoped that with a Shari’ah-based
approach such unnecessary risk areas can be avoided.
Theoretical and Empirical Implications:
Significance of the Research
This research is expected to fill a gap in critically investigating risk management in
Islamic banking from a practical perspective, and to be a tool to boost the growth
and profitability of IFIs. It is, however, not merely another addition to the available
literature. It can be distinguished for a number of reasons.
First, it focuses on the risk management aspect of Islamic banking, a highly
under-researched area in Islamic finance. Second, it places theory and practice in
one place by taking analysis one step further – from literature review to the market
place. As explained earlier, there is a clear difference between theory and reality
in Islamic banking, which subsequently leads to a distinction between conceptual
formulations and actual practices of risk management in Islamic banking. The
differences are discussed and analysed in depth in this study. To relate this research
to the realities of banking and finance practice, the focus of this research is on the
everyday aspects of risk management in Islamic banking. Moreover, this study
relies on a larger sample size within the wider Islamic banking population than
previous studies. The sample is well diversified as regards both the questionnaire
and the interviews in order to enable the researcher to obtain better findings by
conducting significance tests on the differences among the various groups. Finally,
while a few have researched the practical implementation of risk management in
Islamic banking, this research is the first to do so after the recent credit crisis. Thus,
this research extracts empirical evidence from the perceptions of Islamic banking
professionals and from the crisis to support its own views and conclusions.
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
There is no perfect study and the current one is no exception. There are four
limitations that need to be acknowledged and addressed regarding the present
study. First, the cultural aspects of risk management and the impact of regional
cultural differences on the risk perception of respondents should have been exam-
ined. Each region has its unique culture which shapes its risk management and

--- Página 406 ---
390
MAPPING THE RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN ISLAMIC BANKING
therefore Islamic finance-related studies should also endogenise the cultural and
cultural–religious dimension of risk in considering risk and risk management prac-
tices. It is hoped that such a study could be conducted in the future, perhaps as part
of post-doctoral studies.
Similarly, the impact of macroeconomic factors and business cycles on risk
management perceptions across different regions could be investigated. Consid-
ering that each country has a particular dynamism related to the macroeconomy
with specific implications for various risk dimensions in that particular framework,
such economic realities should be considered as part of risk management-related
studies.
The third limitation has to do with the approach to the research process. In
addition to the qualitative research methodology as utilised by this study, a quan-
titative methodology based on secondary data with econometric analysis to mea-
sure the ‘actual’ findings in literature against the ‘perceptions’ as studied in this
research could also have been considered.
It should be noted that time and cost limitations were restricting factors for
the research to address the first three limitations.
Finally, the fourth limitation has to do with literature review. The literature
on risk management in Islamic banking was limited and thus the references were
seriously affected.
SUGGESTIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH
There is still wide scope for improvement and for further research. Having men-
tioned the limitations that were identified and discovered throughout the research
process, the researcher would like to make suggestions and recommendations
which may be taken from this study for future research either to enhance the
study or as a basis for new studies in the field.
Future studies may expand the scope of the sample, enlarging the coverage to
include respondents from more countries and with more diversified backgrounds.
This study accessed the perception of Islamic banking professionals about
risks facing IFIs. It is also possible to seek the views and perceptions of Islamic
banking customers themselves. Expanding the sample in this way would allow
the researcher to use probability sampling techniques. The outcome of random
sampling may enable the researcher to obtain data that is more representative and
would assist the researcher to make more conclusive analyses by using robust sta-
tistical tools such as parametric statistical tools.
Although the research sample for this study comprised a wide range of respon-
dents with different backgrounds within the industry, no regulators were included.
It would be useful to obtain regulators’ views on the issues discussed in this book.

--- Página 407 ---
Conclusion and Research Recommendations
391
Including regulators in the research sample would give additional insights in rela-
tion to their role in improving risk management standards in Islamic banking.
Furthermore, the cultural aspects of risk management and the impact of
regional cultural differences on the risk perception of respondents should have
been examined as each region has its unique culture which shapes its risk
management.
This study focused on risk management within Islamic banking. Further
research may attempt to extend the study to analyse risk management among
takaful companies, Islamic brokers and Islamic funds, and to expand the research
into risk management across the whole wider Islamic finance industry.
Finally, as mentioned in the previous section, secondary data-based econo-
metric analysis should also be considered in future research to observe and model
the articulation and practice of risk and risk management in IBF. As mentioned,
this could help to measure the ‘actual’ against the ‘perceptions’ as studied in the
research.

--- Página 409 ---
APPENDIX1
Questionnaire
PHD. RESEARCH ON ‘RISK MANAGEMENT
IN ISLAMIC BANKING’
Part One: General and Background Information
1. Name and location of the Financial Institution: ________________________
_____________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________
2. Respondent’s Name: ____________________________________________
3. Position: ______________________________________________________
Department: ___________________________________________________
4. Nature of the financial institution:
(Please mark the appropriate boxes)
◽Fully Fledged Islamic bank
◽Conventional bank with Islamic
activities/windows
◽Conventional bank
◽Other, please specify
5. Nature of activities: (Please mark the appropriate boxes)
◽Commercial banking
◽Investment banking
◽Retail banking
◽Other, please specify
6. The accounting standards used by your institution comply with:
◽International standards
◽AAOIFI standards
◽Other, please specify
◽Don’t know
393

--- Página 410 ---
394
QUESTIONNAIRE
Part Two: Risk Perception
Section I Risk Issues in Islamic Banks
7. Severity of risks facing Islamic banks
Below are the main inherent risks in Islamic banking. Could you please
identify the seriousness/importance of the following risks to Islamic banks
according to your own personal view?
Please mark the appropriate box.
Risk
Very
Important Important Neutral Unimportant
Very
Unimportant
Credit Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Market Risk∗
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Operational Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Equity Investment
Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Liquidity Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Asset–Liability
Management Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Displaced
Commercial Risk ∗∗
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Shari’ah
non-compliance Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Concentration Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Reputation Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Fiduciary Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Corporate
Governance Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Legal Risk
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
∗Market Risk encompasses Rate-of-Return Risk, Currency Risk, Commodity Risk, Benchmark Risk,
and Mark-up; but excludes Equity Investment Risk.
∗∗Displaced Commercial Risk is the risk of liquidity suddenly drying up as a consequence of massive
withdrawals should the Islamic bank assets yield returns for Investment Account Holders lower than
expected, or worse, negative rates of profits.
8. Please list below any other risks (if applicable) that you think might affect
Islamic banks, in order of their seriousness/ importance.
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

--- Página 411 ---
Questionnaire
395
9. For institutions that use Islamic finance contracts, please rank the following
Islamic finance contracts according to the intensity of use by your institution
(the most used first):
Please use a scale from 1 to 7, with 1 as the most used and 7 as the least used.
Contract
Rank
Murabahah
Mudarabah
Wakala
Ijarah
Musharakah
Istisna’a
Salam
10. According to your own view, please rank the following Islamic finance con-
tracts according to their risk seriousness, starting by the most risky:
Please use a scale from 1 to 7, with 1 as the most risky and 7 as the least risky.
Contract
Rank
Murabahah
Mudarabah
Wakala
Ijarah
Musharaka
Istisna’a
Salam
11. Please mark the appropriate boxes below
Strongly
Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly
Disagree
1. Risks for Islamic banks should
be managed using same
techniques used in
conventional banking.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
(continued)

--- Página 412 ---
396
QUESTIONNAIRE
Strongly
Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly
Disagree
2. Islamic banking is more risky
by nature than conventional
banking.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
3. Risk management for Islamic
banks is more challenging
than it is for conventional
banks.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
4. There is naturally inherent
conservatism in the principles
of Islamic finance.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
5. In an Islamic bank, a low rate
of return on deposits will lead
to withdrawal of funds.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
6. Depositors would hold the
bank responsible for a lower
rate of return on their
deposits.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
7. Variation among Shari’ah
scholars’ opinions represents a
major risk to Islamic banking.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
8. Non-Shari’ah compliance
could severely damage the
reputation of an Islamic bank.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
9. AAOIFI and IFSB standards
should be made mandatory for
Islamic banks.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
10. Corporate governance is
generally weak in Islamic
banks.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
11. Islamic banking in its current
state is a safer option than
conventional banking
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Section II Capital Adequacy
12. Which of the following does your bank use in calculating its minimum capital
requirements?
◽Basel II standards
◽IFSB standards
◽Other, please specify
◽Don’t know

--- Página 413 ---
Questionnaire
397
13. If your institution is using Basel II standards, please indicate the methodology
used to calculate the minimum capital requirement for:
Credit Risk
◽Standardised approach
◽Foundation IRB
◽Advanced IRB
Market Risk
◽Standardised approach
◽Internal models approach
Operational Risk
◽Basic indicator approach
◽Advanced measurement approach
14. Do you think that the capital requirements for Islamic banks as compared to
conventional banks should be:
◽Higher
◽Same
◽Lower
◽Don’t know
15. Please mark the appropriate boxes in the table below
Strongly
Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly
Disagree
1. Basel II standards should be
equally applied to Islamic
banks without modification.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
2. IFSB standard on Capital
Adequacy should be used by
Islamic banks rather than
Basel II.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
3. Basel II standards should be
reviewed after failing to prevent
the current crisis.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
4. The proposed Basel III rules
would be easily applicable to
Islamic banks
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
5. Stricter capital, leverage and
liquidity rules, as proposed
under Basel III, are likely to
prevent another financial crisis.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽

--- Página 414 ---
398
QUESTIONNAIRE
Section III Credit Crisis and Islamic Finance
16. Please mark the appropriate boxes in the table below
Strongly
Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly
Disagree
1. Islamic banks are more resilient
to economic shocks than their
conventional peers.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
2. The recent crisis would not have
happened under a true Islamic
banking system.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
3. Islamic finance could have
solved the global crisis.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
4. Risk management must be
embedded institutionally.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
5. Banks in general used to rely
heavily on rating agencies.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
6. Islamic banks rely less on rating
agencies than conventional
banks.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
7. Islamic finance industry should
develop its own rating agencies.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
8. Islamic banks will emerge
stronger from the current crisis.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
9. Consolidation is needed among
smaller Islamic banks.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Part Three: Risk Management and Mitigation
17. How often does your bank produce the following reports, if applicable?
Daily Weekly Monthly Yearly Never
Don’t
know
Capital requirement report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Operational risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Profit rate risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Foreign exchange risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Liquidity risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Commodity risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Country risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Equity mark-to-market report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽

--- Página 415 ---
Questionnaire
399
Daily Weekly Monthly Yearly Never
Don’t
know
Classified accounts report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Industry concentration risk report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Credit exposure report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Large exposure report
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Other risk reports (please specify)
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
18. Which of the following techniques does your organisation use to analyse risks,
if applicable?
Internal based ratings
◽
Credit ratings by rating agencies
◽
Gap analysis
◽
Duration analysis
◽
Maturity matching analysis
◽
Earnings at risk
◽
Value at risk
◽
Stress testing
◽
Simulation techniques
◽
Risk Adjusted Rate of Return on Capital (RAROC)
◽
Other (Please Specify)
19. Risk mitigation techniques in Islamic banking compared to conventional bank-
ing are:
◽More advanced
◽Less advanced
◽Similar
◽Don’t know
20. For institutions that use Islamic finance contracts, which of the following tech-
niques does your organisation use to mitigate risks?
On balance sheet netting
◽
Islamic options
◽
Islamic swaps
◽
Guarantees
◽
Islamic currency forwards
◽
Parallel contracts
◽
Collateral arrangements
◽
Other (please specify)

--- Página 416 ---
400
QUESTIONNAIRE
Part Four: Islamic Banking in Practice
21. Please mark the appropriate boxes in the table below
Strongly
Agree
Agree
Neutral
Disagree
Strongly
Disagree
1. Islamic banks have been
mimicking conventional models.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
2. Islamic finance provides an
ethical banking alternative.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
3. There is difference between the
current practice and principles
of Islamic banking.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
4. Islamic banks need to reform to
be successful.
◽
◽
◽
◽
◽
Part Five: The Next Chapter in Islamic Banking
22. According to your own view, which of the following strategies should Islamic
banks focus on in order to thrive? Please rank the following strategies accord-
ing to their importance, starting by the most important.
Please use a scale from 1 to 8, with 1 as the most important and 8 as the
least important.
Strategy
Rank
Improved risk management
Enhanced morality – back to roots
Mergers and acquisitions
Organic growth in home market
Better risk mitigation
Innovation
Diversification – reduce concentration
Standardisation
Other (please specify)
Thank you for your cooperation.

--- Página 417 ---
List of Acronyms
AAOIFI
Accounting and Auditing Organisation for Islamic Financial
Institutions
ALM
Asset Liability Management
AMA
Advanced Measurement Approach
BCBS
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
BIA
Basic Indicator Approach
BIS
Bank for International Settlements
CAR
Capital Adequacy Ratio
CDOs
Collateralised Debt Obligations
CDS
Credit Default Swaps
CEO
Chief Executive Officer
CIBAFI
(General) Council for Islamic Banks and Financial Institutions
DB
Deutsche Bank
DCR
Displaced Commercial Risk
DIB
Dubai Islamic Bank
EAD
Exposure at Default
FSA
Financial Services Authority
FX
Foreign Exchange
GCC
Gulf Co-operation Council
IAH
Investment Account Holder
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IBB
Islamic Bank of Britain Plc.
IBF
Islamic Banking and Finance
ICCS
Islamic Cross Currency Swap
ICMA
International Capital Market Association
IDB
Islamic Development Bank
IFIs
Islamic Financial Institutions
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards
IFS
Islamic Financial Services
IFSB
Islamic Financial Services Board
IIFM
International Islamic Financial Markets
IILM
International Islamic Liquidity Management Corporation
401

--- Página 418 ---
402
LIST OF ACRONYMS
IIMM
Islamic Interbank Money Market
IINCEIF
International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance
IIRA
Islamic International Rating Agency
IMA
Internal Model Approach
IMF
International Monetary Fund
IPRS
Islamic Profit Rate Swap
IRB
Internal Rating Based Approach
IRR
Internal Rate of Return
IRTI
Islamic Research and Training Institute
ISDA
International Swaps and Derivatives Association
LGD
Loss Given Default
LMC
Liquidity Management Centre
LME
London Metal Exchange
NPL
Non-Performing Loan
OIC
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
OTC
Over The Counter
PCA
Principal Component Analysis
PD
Probability of Default
PER
Profit Equalisation Reserve
PLS
Profit and Loss Sharing
PPFs
Principal Protected Funds
PSIA
Profit-Sharing Investment Accounts
RAROC
Risk-adjusted Return on Capital
REITs
Real Estate Investment Trusts
ROE
Return On Equity
RWAs
Risk Weighted Assets
SA
Standardised Approach
SIVs
Special Investment Vehicles
VaR
Value at Risk

--- Página 419 ---
Epilogue
T
his research set out to explore and analyse the perceptions and attitudes of
Islamic banking professionals toward contemporary risk management issues
within Islamic banking. The efforts and dedication put into this research especially
during the data collection and analysis period yielded highly significant and mean-
ingful results, which is a critical success factor. As the foundational and empirical
chapters indicate, this study is considered as having fulfilled its research aims and
objectives. It is hoped and expected that at least some if not all of this research
will be applied by the stakeholders of Islamic banking.
A number of ideas have been discussed and analysed in this research which
can be considered to constitute an agenda for further research and deliberations by
researchers, practitioners, regulators and Shari’ah scholars. As is acknowledged
by many, the Islamic banking industry is at a crossroads. The right direction can
provide the required impetus for sustained growth in the long run. The only alter-
native is through efficient and effective risk management practices and systems
within the authentic worldview of Islamic moral economy. Integrated Islamic risk
management and the building of a risk-sensitive culture are needed now and for the
future. Investment in better risk management systems and tools should be viewed
as a strategic development rather than a situational necessity. Risk management
for Islamic banking is not a destination or a project; it is rather a journey and a
process – an ongoing process.
403

--- Página 421 ---
Bibliography
AAOIFI – Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (1999).
“Statement on the purpose and calculation of the Capital Adequacy Ratio for Islamic
Banks”. Bahrain, March 1999.
Abbas Mirakhor, A. and Krichene, N. (2009). Recent crisis: lessons for Islamic finance.
[Online] Available from: http://www.newhorizon-islamicbanking.com/index.
AbdelKarim, R. A. and Archer, P. S. (2005). Islamic Finance: Innovation and Growth.
London: Euromoney Books.
Abdullah, D. (2007). “Transparency and market discipline: Basel Pillar 3”, in Simon Archer
and Rifaat A. Karim (eds.), Islamic Finance: The Regulatory Challenge. Singapore:
John Wiley and Sons (Asia), pp. 366–377.
Abdul-Ghani, B. (2009). Conference Proceedings. Understanding Sukuk – Issues, Struc-
turing, Innovation. London Sukuk Summit. London, 2–3 July 2009.
Abu Dawood. Sahih Sunan Abu Dawud, Al Beyooh wa Al Egazat. Part 3, Chapter 27, Hadith
no. 3383, p. 677. [Eng. Trans 2/445 no. 1694].
Ahmed, H. (2009). Presentation. Global financial crisis: Lessons for Islamic finance.
Durham University.
Ahmed, H. and Khan, T. (2007). “Risk management in Islamic banking”, in M. Khabir
Hassan and Mervyn K. Lewis (eds.), Handbook of Islamic Banking. Cheltenham:
Edward Elgar, pp. 144–160.
Ainley, M. (2007). Summit Proceedings. Regulating Islamic Finance in the UK Market,
Islamic Finance Summit, London, 30–31 January 2007.
Akkizidis, I. and Khandelwal, S. K. (2007). Financial Risk Management for Islamic Bank-
ing and Finance. London: Palgrave Macmillan.
Al-Omar, F. and Abdel-Haq, M. (1996). Islamic Banking: Theory, Practice and Challenges.
Karachi, Pakistan: Oxford University Press.
Alsayed, A. (2008). “Risk management issues in Islamic banks”, in Lori Hunt (eds.),
Islamic Finance Review 2007/08. London: Euromoney Yearbooks.
Alvi, I. A. (2009a). Liquidity Management in Islamic Finance. Research Report Dow Jones
Islamic Market Indexes, April 2009.
Alvi, I. A. (2009b). “Standardisation of documentation in Islamic finance: IIFM Master
Agreements for Treasury Placement (MATP)”, in Lisa Paul (ed.), Islamic Finance
Review 2009/10. London: Euromoney Yearbooks.
Archer, S. and Karim, R. A. (2007). “Specific corporate governance issues in Islamic
banks”, in Simon Archer and Rifaat A. Karim (eds.), Islamic Finance: The Regulatory
Challenge. Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia), pp. 310–341.
405

--- Página 422 ---
406
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Archer, S. and Haron, A. (2007). “Operational risk exposures of Islamic banks”, in Simon
Archer and Rifaat A. Karim (eds.), Islamic Finance: The Regulatory Challenge.
Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia), pp. 120–134.
Asaria, I (2011). Seminar Proceedings, Eye on Islamic Finance. Bloomberg, London, 18
March 2011.
Askari, H., Iqbal, Z. and Mirakhor, A. (2009). New Issues in Islamic Finance and Eco-
nomics: Progress and Challenges. Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia).
Asutay, M. (2007). “A political economy approach to Islamic economics: systemic under-
standing for an alternative economic system”. Kyoto Bulletin of Islamic Area Studies.
IIUM Journal of Economics and Management, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 3–18.
Asutay, M. (2009a). Seminar Proceedings, Comparative Development of the Islamic Eco-
nomic Model in the Context of Current Market Conditions: The Political Economy of
Islamic Moral Economy, London, 30 January 2009.
Asutay, M. (2009b). Seminar Proceedings, Considering the Dichotomy between the Ideals
and Realities of Islamic Finance. Institute of Islamic Banking and Insurance (IIBI),
London, 15 October 2009.
Asutay, M. (2011). Research Workshop Handout No. 4 – Research Strategy and Design.
Durham: SGIA.
Asutay, M. and Zaman, N. (2009). “Divergence between aspirations and realities of Islamic
economics: a political economy approach to bridging the divide”. IIUM Journal of
Economics and Management, Vol. 17. No. 1, pp. 73–96.
Awan, D. M. M. (2008). “Islamic finance can solve global crisis”. Arab News, 24 April
2008.
Ayub, M. (2007). Understanding Islamic Finance. Chichester: John Wiley and Sons Ltd.
Babbie, E. (2010). The Practice of Social Research. 12th edition. Wadsworth, USA: Library
of Congress.
Bartram, B. (2009). “Derivatives are not weapons of mass destruction”. Evening Standard.
2 November 2009, p. 40.
BIS – Bank for International Settlements (2009). 79th Annual Report, June 2009.
BCBS – Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2006). “International convergence of
capital measurement and capital standards”, June 2006.
BCBS (2008). “Liquidity risk: management and supervisory challenges”, February 2008.
BCBS (2009a). “Proposed enhancements to the Basel II framework”, January 2009.
BCBS (2009b). “Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector – consultative docu-
ment”, December 2009.
Bell, J. (2005). Doing Your Research Project: A Guide For First-Time Researchers In Edu-
cation. 4th edition. Berkshire: Open University Press.
Bessis, J. (1999). Risk Management in Banking. Chichester: John Wiley and Sons Ltd.
Blaikie, N. (2007). Approaches to Social Enquiry: Advancing Knowledge. 2nd edition.
Cambridge: Polity Press.
BLME – Bank of London and the Middle East (2009). Liquidity Risk Management under
Financial Services Authority’s Liquidity Policy 2009 for Islamic Financial Institutions
in the United Kingdom. February 2009.
British Bankers’ Association (2009). Seminar Proceedings, Update on Capital Require-
ments Directive, London, 13 March 2009.

--- Página 423 ---
Bibliography
407
Brown, K., Hassan, K. and Skully, M. (2007). “Operational efficiency and performance
of Islamic banks”, in M. Khabir Hassan and Mervyn K. Lewis (eds.), Handbook of
Islamic Banking. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, pp. 96–115.
Bryman, A. (2008). Social Research Methods. 2nd edition. Oxford University Press.
Buffet, W. (2002). Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report.
Chapra, M. U. (2007). “Challenges facing Islamic financial industry”, in M. Khabir Has-
san and Mervyn K. Lewis (eds.), Handbook of Islamic Banking. Cheltenham: Edward
Elgar, pp. 325–360.
Charmaz, K. (1983). “The grounded theory method: an explication and interpretation”, in
Robert M. Emerson (eds.), Contemporary Field Research: A Collection of Readings.
Boston: Little, Brown and Company, pp. 109–128.
Cohen, M. P. (2005). “Sample size considerations for multilevel surveys”. Internat. Statist.
Rev. Vol. 73, No. 3, pp. 279–287.
Creswell, J. (1994). Research Design: Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods
Approaches. 2nd edition. London: Sage Publications.
Creswell, J. and Plano Clark, V. L. (2007). Designing and Conducting Mixed Methods
Research. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publishing.
Dar Al Istithmar (2006). Sukuk: An Introduction to the Underlying Principles and Structure,
June 2006.
Dar, H. and Presley, J. (2000). “Lack of profit loss sharing in Islamic banking: management
and control imbalances”. International Journal of Islamic Financial Services, Vol. 2,
No. 2, July–Sept. 2000, pp. 3–18.
Das, S. (2006). Risk Management. 3rd edition. Singapore, John Wiley and Sons (Asia).
Davies, P. J. (2009). “Tawarruq loans split scholars”. Financial Times, Tuesday, 8 December
2009.
Davis, E. (2009a). The city uncovered: part 2 – tricks with risk. BBC Two. [Online] Avail-
able from: http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer.
Davis, E. (2009b). The city uncovered: part 3 – risk management. BBC Two. [Online]
Available from: http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer.
Denton Wilde Sapte (2009). Seminar Proceedings, Islamic Finance, 5 June 2009.
De Vaus, D. (2002). Surveys in Social Research. 5th edition, London: UCL Press.
Dey, D. and Holder, D. (2008). “Securitisation in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Ara-
bia – two promising markets”, in Lori Hunt (eds.), Islamic Finance Review 2007/08.
London: Euromoney Yearbooks.
Dillman, D. (2000). Mail and Internet Surveys: The Tailored Design Method. 2nd edition.
New York: John Wiley and Sons.
Eedle, S. (2009). “A global bank’s view of the evolution of Islamic finance”, in Lisa Paul
(eds.), Islamic Finance Review 2009/10. London: Euromoney Yearbooks.
EIIB – European Islamic Investment Bank Plc (2010a). Product Programme: Dual Cur-
rency Murabaha, February 2010.
EIIB (2010b). Credit Risk Policy, May 2010.
EIIB (2010c). Implementation of Capital Requirements Directive, June 2010.
EIIB (2010d). Market Risk Policy, November 2010.
Economist Intelligence Unit (2009). Managing Risk In Perilous Times: Practical Steps To
Accelerate Recovery. April 2009.

--- Página 424 ---
408
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Farook, S. (2008). “Capital adequacy ratios”. Islamic Banking & Finance, Vol. 6, Issue 2,
No. 17, pp. 18–20.
Fitch Ratings (2011). GCC/ Middle East Outlook. January 2011.
Foster, J. (2009). “How Sharia-compliant is Islamic banking?” BBC News, 11 December
2009. [Online] Available from: http://news.bbc.co.uk.
Freeland, C. and Friedman, S. (2007). “Risk and the need for capital”, in Simon Archer and
Rifaat A. Karim (eds.), Islamic Finance: The Regulatory Challenge. Singapore: John
Wiley and Sons (Asia), pp. 215–222.
FRSGlobal (2009). Risk Management in Islamic Banking. Webinar, Monday, 7 December
2009.
FRSGlobal (2010). Islamic Banks and Stress Testing, 26 January 2010.
Funds@Work (2009). Shariah Scholars in the GCC – A Network Analytic Perspective.
10 October 2009.
Grais, W. and Kulathunga, A. (2007). “Capital structure and risk in Islamic financial ser-
vices”, in Simon Archer and Rifaat A. Karim (eds.), Islamic Finance: The Regulatory
Challenge. Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia), pp. 69–93.
Greuning, H. V. and Iqbal, Z. (2008). Risk Analysis for Islamic Banks. Washington D.C.:
The World Bank.
Hasan, M. and Dridi, J. (2010). The Effects of the Global Crisis on Islamic and Conventional
Banks: A Comparative Study. IMF Working Paper WP 10/201, International Monetary
Fund, November 2010.
Hebel, A. (2002). Presentation. “Parametric versus nonparametric statistics – when to use
them and which is more powerful?” Department of Natural Sciences, University of
Maryland Eastern Shore, 5 April 2002.
Haron, A. and Hin Hock, L. (2007). “Inherent risk: credit and market risks”, in Simon
Archer and Rifaat A. Karim (eds.), Islamic Finance: The Regulatory Challenge.
Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia), pp. 94–119.
Heiko, H. and Cihak, M. (January 2008). Islamic Banks and Financial Stability: An Empir-
ical Analysis. Research Report WP/08/16. International Monetary Fund.
HMCS – Her Majesty’s Courts Service.
Howell, D. C. (1997). Statistical Methods for Psychology. 4th edition, Belmont, CA:
Duxbury.
IFSB – Islamic Financial Service Board (2005a), “Guiding Principles of Risk Management
for Institutions (other than Insurance Institutions) Offering Only Islamic Financial
Services”. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, December 2005.
IFSB (2005b). “Capital Adequacy Standard for Institutions (other than Insurance Institu-
tions) Offering Only Islamic Financial Services”. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, December
2005.
IFSB (2006). “Guiding Principles on Corporate Governance for Institutions Offering Only
Islamic Financial Services”. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, December 2006.
IFSB (2007). “Islamic Financial Services Industry Development: Ten-Year Framework and
Strategies”. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, May 2007.
IFSB (2008a). “Technical Note on Issues in Strengthening Liquidity Management of
Institutions Offering Islamic Financial Services: The Development of Islamic Money
Market”. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, March 2008.

--- Página 425 ---
Bibliography
409
IFSB (2008b). “Guidance Note in Connection with the Capital Adequacy Standard:
Recognition of Ratings by External Credit Assessment Institutions (ECAIs) on
Shari’ah-Compliant Financial Instruments”. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, March 2008.
IFSB (2009). “The IFSB membership reflects the growing interest among the Islamic finan-
cial services industry’s stakeholders in the work of the IFSB”. [Online] Available from:
http://www.ifsb.org.
IFSB (2011). “The IFSB announces the establishment of an International Islamic Liquidity
Management Corporation”. [Online] Available from: http://www.ifsb.org/preess_full
.php?id=149&submit=more.
IFSB (2018) Islamic Financial Service Industry Stability Report 2018. Kuala Lumpur:
IFSB.
IIFM – International Islamic Financial Market. “International Islamic Financial Market
(IIFM) holds its 20th Board of Directors Meeting”. [Online] Available from: http://
www.iifm.net.
Iqbal, M. and Llewellyn, D. T. (2002) Islamic Banking and Finance: New Perspectives on
Profit-Sharing and Risk. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Iqbal, M. and Molyneux, P. (2005). Thirty Years of Islamic Banking: History, Performance
and Prospects. Palgrave Macmillan.
Iqbal, Z. and Mirakhor, A. (2007). An Introduction to Islamic Finance: Theory and Prac-
tice. Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia).
Ishaq, E. (2009). “Crisis a blessing in disguise”. Arab News, 13 April 2009. [Online] Avail-
able from: http://www.securities.com.
“Islamic commodity platforms: Standing out from the crowd”. Islamic Finance News,
8 May 2013.
Jorion, P. and Khoury, S. J. (1996). Financial Risk Management: Domestic and Interna-
tional Dimensions. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Blackwell.
Khalaf, R. (2009). “Islamic finance must resolve inner tensions”. Financial Times, Monday,
30 March 2009.
Kamali, M. H. (2005). “Financial engineering and Islamic contracts”, in M. Iqbal and
T. Khan (eds.), Fiqhi Issues in Commodity Futures. London: Palgrave Macmillan.
Khan, B. A. and Prodhan, B. (1992). Islamic Banking: A Survey. Templeton College, The
Oxford Centre for Management Studies, March 1992.
Khan, S. (2009). “Why tawarruq needs to go”. Islamic Finance News, September 2009,
pp. 14–22.
Khan, T. (2004). “Risk management in Islamic banking: a conceptual framework”. Distance
Learning Lecture. 2 November 2004.
Khan, T. and Ahmed, H. (2001). Risk Management: An Analysis of Issues in Islamic Finan-
cial Industry. Occasional Paper 5, Islamic Development Bank.
Khan, T. and Muljawan, D. (2006). Seminar Proceedings, Islamic Financial Architecture:
Risk Management and Financial Stability.
Khandelwal, A. (2008). Risk Management in Islamic Finance. 11 March 2008. [Online]
Available from: http://www.gtnews.com/article/7199.cfm.
KPMG (2006) Making the Transition from Niche to Mainstream Islamic Banking and
Finance: A Snapshot of the Industry and Its Challenges Today.
KPMG (2007) Basel Briefing. July 2007.
KPMG (2009) Basel II and Pillar III. January 2009.

--- Página 426 ---
410
BIBLIOGRAPHY
KPMG (2010) Basel 3 Pressure is building . . . December 2010.
Lee, J. (2008). “Complexities of risk outweigh Basel II”. Islamic Banking & Finance,
August–September 2008, pp. 28–29.
Lewis, M. K. and Algaoud, L. M. (2001). Islamic Banking. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Mahlknecht, M. (2009). Islamic Capital Markets and Risk Management: Global Market
Trends and Issues. London: Risk Books, a division of Incisive Financial Publishing
Ltd.
Markowitz, H. (1959). Portfolio Selection: Efficient Diversification of Investment.
New York: John Wiley and Sons.
McKenzie, H. (2007). “Four pillars of support”. The Banker, September 2007, pp. 10–13.
McKinsey & Company (2009). The Financial Crisis and the Way Forward. The World
Islamic Banking Competitiveness Report 2009/10. December 2009.
McKinsey & Company (2010). In Search of New Opportunities. The World Islamic Banking
Competitiveness Report 2010/11. November 2010.
Miller, N. D. Conference Proceedings, Risk Management Considerations in Sukuk Issuance
& Securitisation. London Sukuk Summit. London, 25 June 2008.
Mirakhor, A. and Krichene, N. (2009). Recent Crisis: Lessons for Islamic Finance.
Research Report.
Mirakhor, A. and Zaidi, I. (2007). “Profit-and-loss sharing contracts in Islamic finance”,
in M. Khabir Hassan and Mervyn K. Lewis (eds.), Handbook of Islamic Banking.
Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, pp. 49–63.
Moody’s (2008a). The Benefits of Ratings for Islamic Financial Institutions and What They
Address. February 2008.
Moody’s (2008b). Islamic Banks in the GCC: A Comparative Analysis. March 2008.
Moody’s (2009a). Frequently Asked Questions: Islamic Finance, Oil Prices and the Global
Crisis. February 2009.
Moody’s (2009b). Calibrating Bank Ratings in the Context of the Global Financial Crisis.
February 2009.
Moody’s (2009c). The Liquidity/Leverage Trade-Off for Islamic Banks – and Its Impact on
Their Ratings. August 2009.
Moody’s (2009d). Global Sukuk Issuance Surges as Effects of Credit Crisis Recede:
Overview and Trend Analysis. November 2009.
Moody’s (2010a). Global Macro-Risk Scenarios 2010–2011. January 2010.
Moody’s (2010b). Shari’ah Risk: Understanding Recent Compliance Issues in Islamic
Finance. May 2010.
Moody’s (2010c). Focus On The Middle East. February 2010.
Moody’s (2011a). Conference Proceedings. Islamic Banking Update. Moody’s Middle East
Sovereign Outlook Seminar. London, 24 March 2011.
Moody’s (2011b). Banks’ Standalone Credit Strength Unlikely to Return to Pre-Crisis Lev-
els, Even under Basel 3. May 2011.
Moktar, H., Abdullah, N. and Al-Habshi, S. (2006). “Efficiency of Islamic banking
in Malaysia: a stochastic frontier approach”. Journal of Economic Cooperation,
Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 37–70.
Moore, E. J. (2009). The International Handbook of Islamic Banking and Finance. Kent:
Global Professional Publishing.

--- Página 427 ---
Bibliography
411
Miller, N. D. Conference Proceedings, Risk Management considerations in Sukuk Issuance
& Securitisation. ICG London Sukuk Summit. London, 25 June 2008.
Newby, A. (2009). “Islamic finance suffers from first big crisis”. Bloomberg, 2 December
2009.
Nagaoka, S. (2007). “Beyond the theoretical dichotomy in Islamic finance: analytical reflec-
tions on mur¯abah.ah contracts and Islamic debt securities”. Kyoto Bulletin of Islamic
Area Studies, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 72–91.
Nienhaus, V. (2007). “Governance of Islamic banks”, in M. Khabir Hassan and Mervyn K.
Lewis (eds.), Handbook of Islamic Banking. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, pp. 144–160.
Noraini, M. A., Archer, S., and Abdel Karim, A. R. (2009). “Risks in Islamic banks: evi-
dence from empirical research”. Journal of Banking Regulation, Vol. 10, No. 2, March
2009, pp. 153–163.
Oakley, D. (2009). “The future of Islamic finance”. Financial Times, Tuesday, 8 December
2009.
Oana, B. (2009). “Economist: Need for unified regulation of Islamic finance”. New Straits
Times (Malaysia), 30 September 2009.
Obaidullah, M. (2007). “Securitization in Islam”, in M. Khabir Hassan and Mervyn K.
Lewis (eds.), Handbook of Islamic Banking. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, pp. 191–199.
Obama, B. (2009). Speech on the economic crisis, 9 January 2009.
Oliver Wyman (2009). The Next Chapter in Islamic Finance: Higher Rewards but Higher
Risks. February 2009.
Oppenheim, A. N. (2001). Questionnaire Design and Attitude Measurement. London:
Printer Publishers.
Pallant, J. (2007). SPSS Survival Manual. Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Parker, M. (2009). “Islamic finance pushes for role in G20 agenda”. Arab News, 30 March
2009.
Proceedings of the Securities Commission Malaysia (SC) and the Oxford Centre for Islamic
Studies (OCIS) Roundtable and Forum. Kuala Lumpur, 15–16 March 2010.
PwC – PricewaterhouseCoopers (2008). Risk appetite – How hungry are you? Research
Report.
PwC (2009). The day after tomorrow. Research Report, February 2009.
Robson, C. (2011). Real World Research; A Resource For Social Scientists And
Practitioner-Researchers. Oxford: Blackwell.
Rosman, R. and Abdul Rahman, A. R. (2010) Conference Proceedings. Risk Management
Practices of Islamic Banks: International Evidence. Durham Islamic Finance Confer-
ence, 14–15 July 2010.
Sadr, K. and Iqbal, Z. (2002). “Islamic banking and finance: new perspectives on profit-
sharing and risk”, in M. Iqbal and D. T. Llewellyn (eds.), Choice Between Debt
and Equity Contracts And Asymmetrical Information: Some Empirical Evidence.
Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Safieddine, A. (2009). “Islamic financial institutions and corporate governance: new
insights for agency theory”. Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 17,
No. (2), pp. 142–158.

--- Página 428 ---
412
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Samad, A. (2004). “Performance of interest-free Islamic banks vis-a-vis interest-based con-
ventional banks of Bahrain”. IIUM Journal of Economics and Management, Vol. 12,
No. 2, pp. 2–15.
Santomero, Anthony M. (1997). “Commercial bank risk management: an analysis of the
process”. Journal of Financial Services Research, 12, 83–115.
Saunders, M., Lewis, P. and Thornhill, A. (2007). Research Methods for Business Students.
4th edition. London: Prentice Hall.
Schroeck, G. (2002). Risk Management and Value Creation in Financial Institutions.
New Jersey: John Wiley and Sons.
Selvam, J. (2008). “Call for more intellectual capital”. Islamic Banking & Finance, Spring
2008, pp. 12–14.
Shaikh, S. A. and Jalbani, A. A. (2009). “Risk management in Islamic and conventional
banks: a differential analysis”. Journal of Independent Studies and Research, Vol. 7,
No. 2, July 2009, pp. 67–79.
Siddiqi, M. N. (1983). Issues in Islamic Banking: Selected Papers. Leicester: Islamic Foun-
dation.
Standard & Poor’s (2009). The Sukuk Market Has Continued To Progress in 2009 Despite
Some Roadblocks. September 2009.
Standard & Poor’s (2010a). The Sukuk Market Is Likely To Show Steady Growth in 2010.
January 2010.
Standard & Poor’s (2010b). GCC Outlook. December 2010.
Standard & Poor’s (2011). Global Standards Needed to give Breadth and Depth to Growing
Sukuk Market. March 2011.
Stiglitz, J. E. (2008). “The fruit of hypocrisy”. Guardian, 16 September 2008. [Online]
Available from: http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/sep/16/economics
.wallstreet.
Stremme, A. (2005). Course Material, Corporate Finance. Warwick FTMBA 2004/2005.
Sundararajan, V. (2007). “Risk characteristics of Islamic products: implications for
risk measurement and supervision”, in Simon Archer and Rifaat A. Karim (eds.),
Islamic Finance: The Regulatory Challenge. Singapore: John Wiley and Sons (Asia),
pp. 40–68.
Sundararajan, V. and Errico, L. (2002). Islamic Financial Institutions and Products in the
Global Financial System: Key Issues in Risk Management and Challenges Ahead. IMF
Working Paper WP 02/192, International Monetary Fund, November 2002.
Tabachnick, G. and Fidell, L. (2006). Using Multivariate Statistics. 5th edition. US: Allyn &
Bacon.
Taylor, M. (2010). “The devil is in the detail”. Bahrain Banker, Winter 2010, p. 32.
Thomas, R. (2009). Conference Proceedings. Understanding Sukuk – Issues, Structuring,
Innovation. London Sukuk Summit. London, 2–3 July 2009.
Townsend, M. (2009). “Saudi scandals lift veil on Gulf finance”. International Investor,
Wednesday, 28 October 2009.
Turen, S. (1995.) “Performance and risk analysis of Islamic banks: the case of Bahrain
Islamic bank”. Journal of King Abdulaziz University: Islamic Economics, Vol. 7,
1415/1995.

--- Página 429 ---
Bibliography
413
Usmani, J. M. T. (2002). An Introduction to Islamic Finance. The Netherlands: Kluwer Law
International.
Usmani (2008). “Looking for new steps in Islamic finance”, in Lori Hunt (eds.), Islamic
Finance Review 2007/08. London: Euromoney Yearbooks.
Usmani, M. I. A. (2009) “Examining the prudence of Islamic banks: A risk manage-
ment perspective”, in Lisa Paul (eds.), Islamic Finance Review 2009/10. London:
Euromoney Yearbooks.
Visser, H. (2009). Islamic Finance: Principles and Practice. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Wan Yusuf, Wan Yusrol (2011). The Impact of IFSB Capital Adequacy Standards on IFIs
in Malaysia. School of Government and International Affairs. Mimeo.
Warde, I. (2009). “‘Pent-up demand’ for Islamic finance in Egypt”. Daily News Egypt, 29
January 2009.
Wilson, R. (2002). “Islamic banking and finance: new perspectives on profit-sharing and
risk”, in M. Iqbal and D. T. Llewellyn (eds.), The Interface Between Islamic and
Conventional Banking. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Wilson, R. (2005). “Are we likely to witness consolidation within the Islamic Banking
Industry as we have seen with the conventional banks?” Islamic Finance News, August
2005.
Wilson, R. (2009). The Development of Islamic Finance in the GCC. Research Report/
Kuwait Programme on Development, Governance and Globalisation in the Gulf States,
London School of Economics, May 2009.
Wright, C. (2008). “Islamic finance: size will matter in Islamic banking”. Euromoney, Tues-
day, 2 December 2008.
Wroughton, L. (2009). “IMF gives self an ‘F’ in spotting financial crisis”. International
Herald Tribune, Friday, 6 March 2009.
Y-Sing, L. (2009). “Islamic benchmark financing rate not expected in near term”. Guardian,
Monday, 16 March 2009. [Online] Available from: http://www.guardian.co.uk.
Yudistira, D. (2004). “Efficiency in Islamic banking: an empirical analysis of eighteen
banks”. Islamic Economic Studies, Vol. 12, No. 1, August 2004, pp. 1–19.
Zawya: Global Sukuk Market (2011).

--- Página 431 ---
Index
Page reference followed by f indicate an illustrated figure; and page reference
followed by t indicate a table
AAOIFI see Accounting and Auditing
Organisation for Islamic Financial
Institutions (AAOIFI)
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 171
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank 81
accountability for risk 364
Accounting and Auditing Organisation
for Islamic Financial Institutions
(AAOIFI) 25, 34–6, 35t, 57, 152,
179, 313, 386
standards 36, 99–100, 103, 141, 143,
180, 217, 229, 271, 289, 360, 363,
376
on sukuk 176–7
accounting standards 217f, 362
AAOIFI 36, 99–100, 103, 141, 143,
180, 217, 229, 271, 289, 360, 363,
376
IAS 360
IFSB 37, 38t, 99–100, 124, 128,
151, 152, 180, 229, 271, 360
IFRS 104, 360
IIFM 124
IILM 124
LMC 124
Advanced Measurement Approach
(AMA) 135, 140
aggregate index 45
Agricultural Bank of Iran 177, 348
Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers
103, 106, 342
AIG 159
Al Baraka Banking Group 60, 81, 98,
103
Al Gosaibi Group 327
Al Mahmood, Dr Abdul Latif 174
Al Rajhi Bank 64, 68, 77, 171
Al Sanea, Maan 103, 104
Algosaibi Groups 104
ALM see Asset Liability Management
(ALM)
AMA see Advanced Measurement
Approach (AMA)
Amlak 168, 338
analysis of variance (ANOVA) 209
anti-money laundering (AML) systems
98
Arab Bank 104
Arbitrage Pricing Theory (Ross) 46
Arbitration and Reconciliation Centre
for Islamic Financial Institutions
(ARCIFI) 35t
arbun 65, 113, 115–16, 369
Arcapita Bank 66, 168, 329, 375
ARCIFI see Arbitration and
Reconciliation Centre for Islamic
Financial Institutions
415

--- Página 432 ---
416
INDEX
Asian Development Bank 36
Asian financial crisis (1997–1998) 329
asset composition of Islamic banks
175, 175t
asset-backing obligation 20
asset–liability management (ALM) 53,
60, 80–92
displaced commercial risk 86–9
funding sources for IFIs 80–3, 82t
in Islamic banking 84–6
operational risk 89–92
asset–liability management risk 6,
313, 338, 344
risk perception
by interview 312, 312t, 313, 313t
by questionnaire 218, 218t, 219
Awal Bank 103–4
Awan, Dr Mohammed Mahmoud 371
back-testing 61
Badawi, Prime Minister Abdullah 173,
361
Bahrain Central Bank 147
Bahrain Islamic Bank 37
bai’ salam 24, 114–15, 116
bai’al-arbun 113
balance sheet netting 110
Bank for International Settlements
(BIS) 36, 130
guidelines 128
Bank Islam 150, 329
Bank Islam Malaysia Berhad 150
Bank Muamalat Malaysia Berhad
150
Bank Negara Malaysia 77
regulation 82
Bank of Credit and Commerce
International (BCCI) 98
Barclays 171
Bartlett’s test of Sphericity 209,
271–2, 272t, 289–90, 290t
Basel Accord
classification of capital in 130t
steps in 130–43
see also Basel I Accord; Basel II
Accord; Basel III Accord
Basel I Accord (1988) 128, 130–1, 325
issues with 131
Basel II Accord 6, 7, 92, 128, 132,
354–5, 384, 387
vs 1988 Basel Capital Accord 132
adherence to 229
credit risk capital charge 134–5
criticism of, and amendments to
136–8
determination of risk weights 140
Islamic banks and 138–42
market risk capital charge 135
operational risk capital charge 135
opinions on
by interview 319, 320t, 325
by questionnaire 231, 232
structure 133f
Three Pillars of 132–6, 152
Pillar 1 134, 135, 138–40, 355
Pillar 2 134, 137, 141, 355, 359
supervisory review 135–6
Pillar 3 135, 136, 137, 141–2
market discipline 136
Basel III Accord 6, 142–3, 143f,
354–5, 387
opinions on
by interview 319, 320t, 322–5,
322t, 323t, 324t
by questionnaire 231
Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (BCBS) 70, 89, 128,
129, 130, 152
on capital charges 135
‘International Framework for
Liquidity Risk Measurement,
Standards and Monitoring’ 137

--- Página 433 ---
Index
417
on liquidity 141
standards 43, 152, 387
‘Strengthening the Resilience of the
Banking Sector’ 137
see also Basel Accord
Basic Indicator Approach 135, 139,
145
bay’ al-dayn (sale of debt) 77
bay’ al-salam contracts 58, 68
BCBS see Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (BCBS)
benchmark risk 63, 66–7, 219
beta of an asset 45
BIS see Bank for International
Settlements (BIS)
Black’s zero-beta model 124
Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing
46
Blom Development Bank of Lebanon
94
BNP-Paribas 15, 103
Bonferroni adjustment 278
Box’s Test of Equality of Covariance
Matrices 274, 276, 277t, 279, 279t,
293t
Buffett, Warren 96, 159
business risk 51, 52, 53
capital
classification of 129–30, 130t
significance in banking 128–9
capital adequacy for Islamic banks
127–51, 281–3, 353–6
adherence to 229, 230t
Basel II versus IFSB 148t
calculation 84, 88, 100
IFSB principles on 143–50
K-W test results
capital adequacy 282, 282t
nature of FI 282, 283t
nature of activities 283, 284t, 356,
362
position of respondent 283, 285t,
356
opinions on
by interview 319–25
by questionnaire 233t, 234f
risk perception 229–34, 230t, 233t,
234f
as tool for risk mitigation 150–1
see also Basel Accord
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
of Basel II Accord 134
Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)
124
Capital Requirement Report 296t
capital-to-liabilities ratio 129
car finance 15
CAR see Capital Adequacy Ratio
(CAR)
cash management 53
CDOs see Collateralised Debt
Obligations (CDOs)
CDS see Credit Default Swaps (CDS)
Central Bank of Bahrain (CBB) 72, 77
Central Bank of Kuwait 147
Central Bank of Sudan 77
Chi-Square test 208, 218, 224, 225,
253, 346
CIBAFI see (General) Council for
Islamic Banks and Financial
Institutions (CIBAFI)
Citibank 15, 171
Classified Accounts Report 296t, 300t
closed questions 196–7
Cohen’s 279, 280, 293
Collateralised Debt Obligations
(CDOs) 164

--- Página 434 ---
418
INDEX
Committee of European Banking
Supervisors 70
commodity risk 52, 68, 219
Commodity Risk Report 295, 296t
concentration risk 6, 52, 59–60, 338,
339, 341, 344
risk perception
by interview 312, 312t, 314t
K-W results 258, 259t
by questionnaire 218, 218t, 219
conglomeration of risks 107
corporate governance frameworks
341–2, 343
corporate governance risk 46, 102–4,
341, 343
K-W test results 254, 259t
Council for Islamic Banks and
Financial Institutions (CIBAFI) 34,
35t, 37
Country Report 296t, 299t
country risk 52, 222
credit cards 15
credit crisis 51, 156–62, 356–63
(2008/09) 94
causes of 160–2
crisis, need for alternative system
163
debt bubble 156–9
derivatives and 159–60
Islamic finance and banking and
163–73, 165t, 283–95
factor analysis for 289–92
failures in Islamic finance 169–70
impact on Islamic banking 165–8
Islamic banking strength after
crisis 170–3
K-W test
accounting standards 287t
nature of activities 287t
nature of FI 286, 286t
results by region 283–6, 286t
results by respondent’s position
288t
MANOVA test 292–5, 293t
risk perception 234–9, 235f,
236t–8t
total variance 290t
perceptions of, by questionnaire
234–9, 235f, 236t–8t
credit crunch see credit crisis
credit default swaps (CDS) 113
credit derivatives 112
Credit Exposure Report 295, 296t
credit ratings 110
credit risk (default risk) 46, 52, 54,
339, 341
in Islamic banks 55–9
management 339
risk perception
by questionnaire 218, 218t
credit VaR 59
CreditEdge 59
Cronbach’s alpha test 206–7
cross-currency rate swaps 369
currency forwards 369
currency risk 52, 67–8, 219
data analysis 207–10
data collection 195–207
see also interviews; questionnaires
Dawnay Day, Richmond, Aston
commodities 68
DB see Deutsche Bank (DB)
DCR see Displaced Commercial Risk
(DCR)
deductive theory 193–4
depth interviews 202
descriptive analysis method 207–8
descriptive research 192
Deutsche Bank AG (DB) 64
DIB see Dubai Islamic Bank (DIB)

--- Página 435 ---
Index
419
Direct Oblimin 273
discretionary portfolios 15
displaced commercial risk (DCR)
86–7, 93, 123, 344
management of 87–9, 87f
risk perception
by questionnaire 218t, 220
documentation risk 92
Doha Bank 99
dual murabahah 64, 65, 116–17, 118f
Dubai Islamic Bank (DIB) 37, 64, 88,
91
Dubai World 169
EAD see Exposure at Default (EAD)
East Cameron Gas Company
169, 327
East Cameron Partners (ECP) 29
sukuk 109t
efficient market hypothesis 46
Eglinton, Ken 361
Equamax 273
equity and commodity prices (price
risk) 61
equity investment risk 65–6
risk perception
by questionnaire 218t, 219
equity management 53
Equity Mark-To-Market Report 296t,
300t
Estimates of Worst Case 365
European Islamic Investment Bank Plc
(EIIB) 73, 201
European Union
Capital Adequacy Directive 132
expected losses (EL) 59
expected shortfall 62
explanatory research 193
explorative approach 194
exploratory interviews 202
exploratory research 192
exposure at default (EAD) 59, 140
external fraud 89
factor analysis 209, 253, 271–81, 351,
357
factor rotation 273
factor sensitivities 61
family ownership/majority ownership
342–3
fiduciary risk 100–2
financial crisis see credit crisis
financial risk 51, 52, 53
Financial Services Authority (FSA)
105
fiqh 57, 93, 112, 113, 115, 116, 368,
385
fiqh al-muaamalat 93
First Energy Bank 374
Fisher, Irving 45
foreign exchange rates (FX risk) 61
Foreign Exchange (FX) Risk Report
295, 296t, 298t
forward rate swaps 369
free-style interviews 202
frequency distribution 207–8, 220,
250, 340
of capital adequacy standards
230f
of current practices in Islamic
banking 248f
of risk perceptions 222, 223t
Friedman test 209, 253, 264, 265
FSA see Financial Services Authority
(FSA)
future of Islamic banking 372–8
views on
by interview 333–5
by questionnaire 246, 247t, 248,
248f, 249, 250t, 306–7, 307t
future research 390–1

--- Página 436 ---
420
INDEX
gap analysis 61, 110, 365
GCC see Gulf Co-operation Council
(GCC)
(General) Council for Islamic Banks
and Financial Institutions (CIBAFI)
34, 35t, 37
German State of Saxony Anhalt sukuk
28
gharar 20, 62, 112, 114, 115
global credit crisis 325–30
Global Investment House 167, 168,
327
governance risks 53
Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) 18
Board Directors Institute 343
Gulf Finance House in Bahrain 66
Gulf International Bank 104
Hadith 178
Hanafi school of thought 93–4, 115,
116
Hanbali school of thought 93–4, 115,
116
haram 20, 114, 115, 168
hedge funds 15, 171
hedging 110
hibah 24, 25
Historical approach 61
Hotelling’s Trace 276
HSBC 15
Hypovereinsbank 104
IAH see Investment Account Holder
(IAH)
IAS accounting standards 360
IBB see Islamic Bank of Britain Plc
(IBB)
IBF see Islamic Banking and Finance
(IBF)
ICD see Islamic Corporation for the
Development of the Private Sector
35t, 36–7
ICIEC see Islamic Corporation for the
Insurance of Investment and Export
Credit 35t
ICMA see International Capital
Market Association (ICMA)
IDB see Islamic Development Bank
(IDB)
idiosyncratic risk 45
IFI balance sheet 81t
IFRS see International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS)
IFSB see Islamic Financial Services
Board (IFSB)
Ihlas Finans of Turkey 74, 99
IIFM see International Islamic
Financial Markets (IIFM)
IILM see International Islamic
Liquidity Management Corporation
(IILM)
IIMM see Islamic Interbank Money
Market (IIMM)
IINCEIF see International Centre for
Education in Islamic Finance
(IINCEIF)
IIRA see Islamic International Rating
Agency (IIRA)
ijara (ijarah) 22–3, 30, 56, 60, 68, 81,
91, 107, 121, 140, 145, 170, 174,
250, 264, 345, 346, 348
intensity of use of 224t
portfolio 64
risk perception 225, 225t, 266t
ijarah sukuk 25–6, 78
ijarah wa-Iqtinah 22–3
IMA see Internal Model Approach
(IMA)
IMF see International Monetary Fund
(IMF)

--- Página 437 ---
Index
421
inductive reasoning 193, 194
Industry Concentration Risk Report
295, 296t
infrastructure and information systems
51
initial public offerings 15
interest rate risk 63, 135
interest-rate cycle 63
Internal-Based Rating System 365
internal fraud 89
internal model approach (IMA) 135,
140
internal rate of return (IRR) 178
internal rating based approach (IRB)
134, 140
International Capital Market
Association (ICMA) 77
International Centre for Education in
Islamic Finance (IINCEIF)
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) 100, 103, 104
accounting standards 37, 38t,
99–100, 104, 124, 128, 151, 152,
180, 229, 271, 360
International Islamic Bank for
Investment and Development in
Egypt, 89
International Islamic Centre for
Reconciliation and Commercial
Arbitration (IICRA) 34
International Islamic Financial
Markets (IIFM) 34, 35t, 37–9, 77
accounting standards 124
Memorandum of Understanding
with the International Capital
Market Association (ICMA) 37–8
Memorandum of Understanding
with the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association (ISDA),
111
‘tahawwut’ (Hedging) Master
Agreement 111
International Islamic Liquidity
Management Corporation (IILM)
39, 79
accounting standards 124
International Islamic Trade Finance
Corporation (ITFC) 35t
International Monetary Fund (IMF)
34, 36
International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (ISDA) 39
interpretative analysis 210
interview data analysis 309–36
interview questions 310–11
interview themes 310
results and data analysis 311–35
capital adequacy for Islamic banks
311, 319–25
future of Islamic banking 311,
333–5
global credit crisis 311, 325–30
risk mitigation 311, 330–2
risk perception in Islamic banking
310–11, 311–19
theory vs practice in Islamic
banking 311, 332–3
interviews 202–5, 205t
administration of interview and
sampling 204–5
advantages of 203
depth 202
disadvantages 203
exploratory 202
free-style 202
interview structure 204
operationalising 203–5
sample size 205
standardised 202
inventory management 107

--- Página 438 ---
422
INDEX
Investment Account Holder (IAH)
138, 139
Investment Dar Company (‘TID’) v.
Blom Development Bank 94
Investment Dar, The see The
Investment Dar (TID)
investment risk reserves (IRRs) 86, 87,
200
IRB see Internal Rating Based
Approach (IRB)
IRR see Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
IRTI see Islamic Research and
Training Institute (IRTI)
ISDA see International Swaps and
Derivatives Association (ISDA)
Ishaq, Sheikh Esam M. 171
Islamic Bank of Britain Plc (IBB) 98
Islamic Bank of South Africa 99
Islamic banking
future of 372–8
views on
by interview 333–5
by questionnaire 246, 247t, 248,
248f, 249t, 250t, 306–7, 307t
practical issues 304–6, 370–2
theory vs practice in 332–3
Islamic Banking Act (1983) 150
Islamic Banking and Finance (IBF)
development stages 33f
global assets 18, 19f
historical background of 14–17, 16t
institutional developments 33–9, 35t,
36f
principles of 20
size of industry 17–19, 19t
vs conventional banking 31–3, 31f,
32t
Islamic Corporation for the
Development of the Private Sector
(ICD) 35t, 36–7
Islamic Corporation for the Insurance
of Investment and Export Credit
(ICIEC) 35t
Islamic Development Bank (IDB) 34,
35t, 36, 37, 78
Islamic finance contracts
correlation between conventional
and Islamic banks and risk
perception 225, 226t
intensity of use of 222–4, 224t, 226f
perceived risk levels of 222–6
risk perception in Islamic finance
contracts 225, 225t
see also individual instruments
Islamic financial contracts 20–4, 21f,
345–50
intensity of use of 222–4, 224t, 226f,
345–7
risk levels of 222–9, 223t
risk perception in 347–50
risks attached to 225, 226, 225t, 226t
Islamic Financial Services Board
(IFSB) 34, 35t, 36–7, 79, 128, 152,
354
Exposure Draft on Risk
Management 101–2
GN-1: Guidance Note in Connection
with the Capital Adequacy
Standard: Recognition of Ratings
by ECAIs on Shari’ah-Compliant
Financial Institutions 144
principles of credit risk management
55t–6t
principles of market risk
management 62t
principles of rate of equity
investment risk management 65t
principles on capital adequacy 7,
143–50
standards 5–6, 38t–9t, 99–100

--- Página 439 ---
Index
423
IFSB-1: Guiding Principles of
Risk Management for
Institutions 38t, 42–3, 143
IFSB-2: Capital Adequacy
Standards for Institutions 38t,
143–4, 150
IFSB-3: Guiding Principles on
Corporate Governance for
Institutions Offering Only
Islamic Financial Services 38t
IFSB-4: Disclosures to Promote
Transparency and Market
Discipline for Institutions
offering Islamic Financial
Services 38t
IFSB-5: Guidance on Key
Elements in the Supervisory
Review Process of Institutions
offering Islamic Financial
Services 38t
IFSB-6: Guiding Principles on
Governance for Islamic
Collective Investment Schemes
38t
IFSB-7: Capital Adequacy
Requirements for Sukuk
Securitisations and Real Estate
Investment 38t, 144
IFSB-8: Guiding Principles on
Governance for Takaful (Islamic
Insurance) Undertakings 38t
IFSB-9: Guiding Principles on
Conduct of Business 38t
IFSB-10: Guiding Principles on
Shari’ah Governance Systems
for Institutions Offering Islamic
Financial Services 38t
IFSB-11: Standard on Solvency
Requirements for Takaful
(Islamic Insurance)
Undertakings 38t
supervisory discretion formula for
calculating CAR 146, 146f, 147f
Islamic hedging tools 114–17
Islamic insurance see Takaful
Islamic Interbank Money Market
(IIMM) 77
Islamic International Rating Agency
(IIRA) 34, 35t, 39
Islamic mortgages 15, 60, 77, 98, 168
Islamic products distribution 174f
Islamic Profit Rate Swap (IPRS) 69
Islamic Research and Training
Institute (IRTI) 34–5
istisna’a contracts 23, 58, 68, 91, 93,
107, 121, 139, 140, 145, 186, 245,
345, 348
intensity of use of 224t
risk perception 225t, 267t
istithmar 30
ITFC see International Islamic Trade
Finance Corporation (ITFC)
JP Morgan 46
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO) test 209,
271–2, 272t, 289–90, 290t
Kaiser’s criterion 273
Keynes, John Maynard 45, 163
KFH 171
Khaleeji Commercial Bank 374
khiar 369
khiyar al-shart option 116
know-your-customers (KYC) system
98
Kondratief cycles’ 156
Kruskal-Wallis (K-W) test 208, 222,
253, 340
on capital adequacy 282, 282t
nature of FI 282, 283t
nature of activities 283, 284t, 356,
362

--- Página 440 ---
424
INDEX
Kruskal-Wallis (K-W) test
(Continued)
position of respondent 283, 285t,
356
credit crisis and Islamic banking
accounting standards 287t
nature of activities 287t
nature of FI 286, 286t
results by region 283–6, 286t
results by respondent’s position
288t
on risk measurement 301t
by nature of FI 302t
by region 302t, 341, 343–4, 377
on risk mitigation 303–4, 303t,
367–70
by nature of FI 304t
on risk perception
concentration risk 258, 259t
corporate governance risk 254,
259t
credit risk 260, 260t
entire research sample 254,
254t–6t
liquidity risk 260–1, 261t
nature of FI 269–71, 270t, 272t
perceived risk seriousness 269,
270t
respondent’s position and
accounting standards 261, 262t
results by nature of FI 261, 262t
risk categories in relation to nature
of FI 261–3, 263t
selected sample data 254, 258t
on risk reporting 295, 296t
Kuala Lumpur Interbank Offered Rate
(KLibor) 66
Kuwait Finance House 37, 68, 85, 88,
329
Kuwait Souq al-Manakh crisis (1982)
329
lack of standardisation risk 93–4
Large Exposure Report 295, 296t
lease finance 15
leasing and real estate projects 15
legal risk 52, 53, 105–7, 312–13
Lehman Brothers 5, 159
Levene’s Test of Equality of Error
Variances 276, 277t, 279, 280t, 293,
293t
LGD see Loss Given Default (LGD)
LIBOR, national variant of 66
Likert scale 207, 218
limitations of study 389–90
liquidity management 53
Liquidity Management Centre (LMC)
34, 35t, 37, 77, 79
accounting standards 124
Liquidity Management House (LMH)
329
liquidity risk 6, 46, 52, 69–80, 123,
313, 338, 340, 341, 344
in Islamic banks 70–4, 71t, 72f, 74
reduction in Islamic banks 74–80
risk perception
by interview 312, 312t, 313, 313t
by questionnaire 218, 218t, 219
Liquidity Risk Report 296t, 299t
literature review 9, 43, 124, 182, 195,
199, 210, 220, 226, 337, 338, 353,
354, 378, 389
LMC see Liquidity Management
Centre (LMC)
LME see London Metal Exchange
(LME)
London Metal Exchange (LME) (Over
The Counter (OTC) Contracts) 21
loss given default (LGD) 59, 140
Malayan Banking Berhad 82
Malaysia
Banking Act 1983 150

--- Página 441 ---
Index
425
during 1997 currency crisis 154
IFSB Act 2002 37
market share 18
Malaysian Financial Market
Association 369
Malaysian ringgit (MYR) 29
Maliki school 93–4, 15
Mann-Whitney U test 208
MANOVA test 253, 274, 279, 281,
352, 362
mark-up based contracts 347–9
see also ijarah; istisna’a;
murabahah; salam; wakalah
mark-up risk 66, 219
marked-to-market trading 61–2
market risk 46, 52, 54, 61–9
charges 140
in Islamic banks 62–3, 62t
management 61
managing for IFIs 68–9
risk perception
by questionnaire 218t, 219
Market Risk Amendment (1996) 144
maslahah 113
Master Agreement for Treasury
Placement (MATP) 39
maturity matching analysis 365
maysir 112, 115
Merrill Lynch 46
Mit Ghamr bank, Egypt 14
mixed method-based research 195
Modigliani and Miller Theorem 46
money laundering 46
Monte Carlo approach 61
Moody’s 59
mortgages 64
Islamic 15, 17, 60, 77, 98, 168
residential 70, 131
subprime 154, 156–7, 359
mudarabah (profit-sharing agreement)
22, 30, 65, 345
intensity of use of 222, 224t, 264,
265t
risk perception 225, 225t, 266t
mudarib 57–8, 65–6
‘mudarib fee’ 22
active management of 220
multiple factor model 46
multivariate analysis of variance
(MANOVA) 209, 253, 274, 279,
281, 292, 295, 352, 361, 362, 382
multivariate tests 276–8, 277t, 280t,
284t
murabahah (‘cost-plus financing’ or
‘mark-up’) 21–2, 23, 57–8, 68,
72–3, 121, 219, 345
dual 64, 65, 116–17, 118
fixed income 175
intensity of use of 222, 224t
reverse 319
risk perception 225, 225t, 266–9,
266t, 267t, 268t, 269t
‘murabahah syndrome’ 174, 222, 346
musawama 24
musharakah (equity participation) 22,
30, 65–6, 121, 219, 222, 345, 346,
349
diminishing 56, 57, 64, 121
intensity of use of 222, 224t
risk perception 225, 225t, 266t–7t
mutajara 77
Nakheel PJSC 29, 169–70
name lending 342
National Bank of Abu Dhabi 29
non-parametric data analysis 253
non-parametric tests 208
Non-Performing Loan (NPL) 165
Northern Rock 70, 179
NPL see Non-Performing Loan (NPL)
n-vivo 210

--- Página 442 ---
426
INDEX
Obama, Barack 153
OIC see Organisation of Islamic
Cooperation (OIC)
oil prices (1973) 14
open-ended questions 196–7,
199–200, 210
operational risk 52, 54, 89–90
IFSB principles of 90t
in Islamic banks 90–2
risk perception
by questionnaire 218t, 219
Operational Risk Report 296t, 297t
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
(OIC)
Fiqh Academy Resolution 57
originate-and-distribute business
approach 29
originate-and-hold business model 29
originate-to-distribute model 157
parallel bay’ al-salam contract 68
parallel salam 24
parametric tests 61, 208
Partial Eta Squared 279, 280
for ‘resilience of IFIs’ 293
PCA see principal component analysis
(PCA)
PD see Probability of Default (PD)
Pecking Order Theory 46
people risk 91–2, 219
PER see Profit Equalisation Reserve
(PER)
personal loans 15
petrodollars 14
Pillai’s Trace 276
PLS see Profit and Loss Sharing (PLS)
political risk 52, 222, 339–40, 384
portfolio theory 45
PPFs see Principal Protected Funds
(PPFs)
price risks 68
Prince Waleed’s Kingdom Holdings
171
principal component analysis (PCA)
273, 290
Rotated Component Matrix 291,
292t
total variance 290t
Varimax rotation 290
Principal Protected Funds (PPFs) 116
principal-agent problem 57–8
private equity 15
probability of default (PD) 59, 140
profit-and-loss sharing (PLS) 20, 33,
117–18, 219
contracts 141
modes 54
principle 40
profit equalisation reserve (PER) 86,
87, 88, 139, 144, 178, 220
profit-rate cycle 63
Profit Rate Risk Report 296t, 298t
profit rate swaps 64, 69, 111, 368, 369
profit-sharing contracts 7, 347–9
see also mudarabah; musharakah
profit-sharing investment accounts
(PSIAs) 63–4, 80–1, 128, 178–9,
180
restricted 80
unrestricted 80
prohibition of interest see riba
prohibition of uncertainty see gharar
prohibition of unlawful assets see
haram
Promax 273
PSIA see profit-sharing investment
accounts (PSIA)
qard al-hasan 65
qard hassan 24–5, 359
Qatar Investment Authority 171
Qatar Islamic Bank 68

--- Página 443 ---
Index
427
qualitative data analysis 210
qualitative method 191, 194, 195
quantitative data analysis 207–10
quantitative research method 191, 194,
195
Quartimax 273
Quartimin 273
questionnaire, descriptive: data
analysis and results 213–51
characteristics of respondents
213–17
accounting standards used by
financial institution 217, 217f
activities of financial institution
215–17, 216t
geographic distribution of study
sample 214, 214t
nature of financial institution 215,
216t
positions of participants 214–15,
215t
evaluating the practice of Islamic
banking 246, 247t, 248
future of Islamic banking 248–50
growth strategies for IFIs 248, 249t,
250t
risk perception 217–50
additional risk issues facing IFIs
226–9, 227f, 228
among different groups 220, 221t
capital adequacy for Islamic banks
229–34
credit crisis and Islamic banks
234–9
Intensity of use of different
Islamic financial contracts
222–4, 224t, 226
overall risks faced by Islamic
banks 217–22, 218t
risk issues in Islamic banks
217–39
risk levels of Islamic finance
contracts 222–9, 223t
risk management and mitigation
239–46
risk management and reporting
239–42, 240t, 241t
risk measurement 242, 243
risk mitigation 244–6, 244f, 245,
246
risks attached to Islamic finance
contracts 225, 226
questionnaire, study 393–400
questionnaires, survey 195–202
advantages of 196
disadvantages of 196
level and characteristics of
measurements 197–8
interval/ratio scale 197
nominal scale 197
ordinal scale 197
open-ended v closed questions
196–7
response rate 201t
sampling 198–202
administration and 201–2
design and structure 199–200
rab al-mal (principal) 57, 65
RAROC see Risk-adjusted Return on
Capital (RAROC)
rate-of-return risk (profit rate risk) 61,
62–5, 63t, 123, 219
real estate sector 15, 18, 56, 59–60, 73,
83, 98, 164, 165, 167, 168, 181, 225,
312, 339
regulatory and tax issues 104–5
regulatory risk 52, 140, 222
reliability of data 205–7
re-pricing risk 52
reputational risk 6, 52, 96–9, 312, 315,
338, 339, 344

--- Página 444 ---
428
INDEX
reputational risk (Continued)
risk perception
by interview 312, 312t, 315
by questionnaire 218, 218t, 219
research, future 390–1
research design 191–3
research difficulties and limitations
210–11
research hypotheses 185–91
research implications and
recommendations 386–9
consolidation 387
diversification 387–8
innovation 388
liquidity enhancement 388
risk management infrastructure,
investment in 388
Shari’ah-based approach versus
Shari’ah compliance 388–9
research methodology 191
research on risk management in
Islamic banks 120–3
research questions and objectives
183–5
research strategy 193–4
deductive theory 193–4
explorative approach 194
inductive approach 194
responsibility for risk 364
return on equity (ROE) 122–3
riba 20, 59
risk
classification of 51–4
common to both Islamic and
conventional banks 54–9
definition 44
interaction and mutation of 54
risk-adjusted return on capital
(RAROC) 117
risk avoidance techniques 52
RiskCalc 59
risk culture and governance 48–9
risk diversification 110
risk exposures 53t
risk management
conducting 49–50, 50f
definition 44–5
framework 48–51, 49f
history of 45–6
systemic importance of 47–8
vs risk measurement 48
risk management and reporting
239–42, 240t, 241t–2t, 295–300,
363–5
frequency of producing capital
requirement report 297t
frequency of producing classified
accounts report 300t
frequency of producing country
report 299t
frequency of producing equity
mark-to-market report 300t
frequency of producing FX risk
report 298t
frequency of producing liquidity risk
report 299t
frequency of producing operational
risk report 297t
frequency of producing profit rate
risk report 298t
risk measurement 242, 243t, 50,
301–2, 365–7
K-W test results 295, 296t
K-W test results for 301t
by nature of FI 302t
by region 302t, 341, 343–4, 377
risk mitigation 244–6, 244f, 245t,
246t, 303–4, 367–70
by interview 330–2
in Islamic banking 110–12
K-W test results for 303t
by nature of FI 304t

--- Página 445 ---
Index
429
risk obligation 20
risk perception 217–50, 254–81
in Islamic banking 311–19
overall risks 254–63
Islamic finance contracts 264–9
intensity of use 264, 264t
Mudarabah 264, 265t
risk perception for 265–9,
266t–7t
Wakala and Salaam 265, 265t
K-W test results
concentration risk 258, 259t
corporate governance risk 254,
259t
credit risk 260, 260t
entire research sample 254,
254t–6t
liquidity risk 260–1, 261t
nature of FI 269–71, 270t, 272t
perceived risk seriousness 269,
270t
respondent’s position and
accounting standards
261, 262t
results by nature of FI 261, 262t
risk categories in relation to
nature of FI 261–3, 263t
selected sample data 254, 258t
risk management and reporting
295–300, 363–5
risk-return trade-off 45, 47
risk-sharing assets 175–6
Risk Tracker 59
risk-transferring techniques 52
risk weighted assets (RWAs)
145, 146
risk-weighted capital ratio 150
risk weightings 117
ROE see return on equity (ROE)
Rotated Component Matrix 273, 275
Royal Bank of Scotland 157
Roy’s Largest Root 276
RWAs see risk weighted assets
(RWAs)
Saad Group 2, 29, 103, 104, 106, 169,
327, 342
Golden Belt sukuk 169
salam (salaam) (forward sale) 24, 30,
58, 121, 345
contracts 68
intensity of use of 224, 224t, 264,
265, 265t
parallel 24
risk perception 225, 225t, 267t
Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency
(SAMA) 77
securitisation 369
securitised debt-based assets 164
self-administered questionnaire 195
semi-structured interviews 195
Shafii school 93–4, 115
Shamil Bank of Bahrain 85
Shamil Bank of Bahrain v. Beximco
Pharmaceuticals Ltd in 2004 106
Shari’ah and Islamic derivatives
112–14
Shari’ah arbitrage risk 95
Shari’ah-compliant engineering 317,
369
Shari’ah-non-compliance risk 6, 93–6,
218, 219, 229, 312, 338, 340, 344
risk perception
by interview 312–13, 312t
by questionnaire 218t, 219
Shari’ah scholars, shortfall of 95–6,
97f
Sharjah Islamic Bank 81
Sharpe’s Capital Asset Pricing Model
(CAPM) 45–6
significance testing 208
single-factor models of risk 45

--- Página 446 ---
430
INDEX
SIVs see Special Investment Vehicles
(SIVs)
snowball sampling method 198–9, 204
Solidarity Fund 35t
Sorouh PJSC 108
Spearman’s Rank Correlation
Coefficient 208, 224, 225
special investment vehicles (SIVs) 164
stamp duty 105
Standard & Poor’s 59
Standard Chartered Bank 15
standardised approach (SA) 135, 139
standardised interviews 202
Stiglitz, Joseph 159
stop-loss provisions 61
stress-testing analysis 50, 61, 110
structured products, mutual funds, 15
subprime assets 164
subprime mortgage 154, 156–7, 359
sukuk (sak) 25–30, 176–7, 369, 383
asset-backed 81
defaults 169–70
definition 25
East Cameron asset-backed 108,
109t
Golden Belt 106
ijara sukuk 25–6
issuance 2008–2009 164
issuance by country 29, 30f
lack of liquidity 78–9
market developments 26–30, 27f
risk management issues in 107–9
transparency 109
types of 25–6
systematic risk 52, 157, 170, 179, 180,
322, 355
Tabung Haji in Malaysia 14
Tadawul (Saudi stock exchange) 78–9
Tahawwut (Hedging) Master
Agreement 39
takaful 15, 17, 98, 391
Tamweel 108, 168, 338
tangibles 21, 56, 140, 144, 177, 314,
319, 339
tawarruq 21, 22, 68, 173–5
technology risk 92
teleconference interviews 204
Tests of Between-Subjects Effects
278–9, 278t, 280, 281t, 293, 294t
The International Banking Corporation
(TIBC) 103
The Investment Dar (TID) 2, 29, 167,
169, 313, 327, 375
tolerance level 61
total return swaps 369
treasury risk 53
triangulation method 195
UBS 46
UK sovereign sukuk 28
uncontrollable risk 52
Unicorn Investment Bank 374, 375
univariate analysis of variance
(ANOVA) 209
unsystematic risk 52
US Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network 99
US GAAP standards 100
US Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency 99
Usmani, Sheikh Muhammad Taqi 170,
174, 175, 176
validity of data 205–7
Value at Risk (VaR) 50, 69
marked-to-market trading 61–2
models 46
VaR see Value at Risk (VaR)
Varimax 273
venture capital 15
video conference interviews 204

--- Página 447 ---
Index
431
wa’ad contract 65, 114, 116,
117, 369
wadiah 25
wakala 23–4, 30, 168, 265, 319
intensity of use of 224t, 264,
265t
risk perception 225, 225t, 266t
Wall Street model 5, 125, 153, 181,
332, 335, 360, 371
Weighted Average Cost of Capital
(WACC) 46
WestLB, 103
Wilks’ Lambda 276, 280, 293
World Bank 36
World Islamic Economic Forum
(WIFE), fifth (2009) 172, 361
World recession 2009 155f, 158f
Yudhoyono, President Susilo
Bambang 172–3, 361
Zawya 340, 342
zero-beta model (Black) 124
z-scores 122

--- Página 448 ---
WILEY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook EULA.

