=== Network Security Checklist (2).pdf ===

--- Página 2 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 2
The threat landscape for enterprise security is always changing and requires constant 
adaptation. The latest evolutionary demands for corporate networks include the cloud and 
remote work—environments where the old hub-and-spoke approach is less than ideal. 	
Cloud-based network security is purpose-built to secure resources wherever they reside.
Zero Trust Security
Zero Trust means only permitting access to those 
who require it and continually verifying that each 
person is meeting pre-determined access policies. 
Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA) secures company 
resources at the application level employing standard 
logins and MFA authorization, as well as at the device 
level utilizing posture checks, and context-based 
permissions such as time of day and location.
SWG
A Secure Web Gateway (SWG) protects company 
employees while web browsing. It prevents outbound 
traffic from accessing restricted content such as 
gambling sites, as well as known or suspected 
malicious file destinations. It also scans inbound 
traffic for malicious web content.
FWaaS
Firewall-as-a-Service works with ZTNA to prevent 
anyone from accessing resources without an 
authorized identity such as a specific user, group, or 
originating IP address. Just like on-premises firewalls, 
FWaaS defends against unwanted entry into company 
resources and networks. 
High-performance connectivity
A network security solution should be responsive 
and provide a smooth user experience. To enable 
this, the solution should ideally be cloud-based with 
points-of-presence (PoPs) distributed throughout the 
globe. Companies can then choose PoPs in locations 
near their employees, for better responsiveness and 
connectivity rather than backhauling traffic through 
physical data centers.
Cloud-Based Network Security in Brief

--- Página 3 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 3
Network Security Checklist
 	 Map Your Network’s Architecture (user devices, on-prem services and 	
	
	
appliances, cloud services, etc.)
	 Assess Your Needs (VPN replacement, cloud firewall, Zero Trust solutions, 	
	
DNS filtering, device posture check, etc.)
	 Enable SSO With MFA
	 Define Group Access Policies
	 Define Compliance Needs
	 Research Solutions Based on Assessments Above
	 Acquire and Deploy Your Cloud-Based Network Security Solution

--- Página 4 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 4
Map Your Network’s Architecture
The first thing you need to do is assess what your corporate infrastructure 
looks like, be it as a list or a diagram. It’s important to understand your on-
premises needs such as the number of data centers your company has. 
Also include all the cloud services the company uses—at least the ones you 
know about. Again, try to be as exhaustive as possible, not forgetting about 
that one Heroku app that DevOps is using. 
Then it’s on to endpoints. What kind of devices are your remote employees 
using? Is it all company-owned Macs, a mix of Windows and Mac, what 
about phones or tablets that might be used to access company resources? 
Also consider BYOD devices and what employees are currently using those 
for.
Locations are also a key part of assessing your needs since this will help 
determine the optimal PoPs to connect to. 
Assess Your Needs
Next, it’s time to consider what we’re trying to accomplish with the move 
to a cloud-based network security provider. Is it purely a VPN replacement 
with better latency for employees spread out across multiple locations? Do 
you want to boost security with a modern Zero Trust approach that includes 
more restrictive permissions instead of providing carte blanche access to 
the network and resources?
What about adding a SWG for secure web access and malware protection, 
as well as logging activity for incident response purposes? Do you need 
static IPs, or access control at the DNS level? 
All of these issues need to be taken into consideration. If you’re moving to 
a cloud-based network security model from the traditional hub-and-spoke 
approach then we strongly recommend adopting a zero trust model. This 
includes Zero Trust Network Access (ZTNA) for company devices, as well as 
an agentless option for unmanaged devices and third-party access such as 
by contractors.
The Checklist Explained

--- Página 5 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 5
Enable SSO with MFA
Using an identity provider (IdP) with single sign-on (SSO) support and 
multi-factor authentication (MFA) is highly recommended when moving to 
a converged network security solution. An SSO IdP provides a better user 
experience that avoids the need to perform multiple logins every day. It also 
makes it much easier to gain visibility over logins and to group users for Zero 
Trust access purposes.
If you have your own homegrown identity management system then look 
for services that support the System for Cross-domain Management (SCIM) 
specification. If your company uses multiple providers, support for Security 
Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 is also a must.
Define Group Access Policies
Once you have your identity provider worked out and implemented it’s 
important to consider user group permissions for your future Zero Trust 
Network Access approach. Sales and marketing may need access to 
Salesforce, for example, but those departments don’t need access to the 
codebase on GitHub, or the production database for the website. These 
kinds of finely segmented permissions make it easier to control who has 
access to what, and limit the impacts of a breach should the worst happen.
Define Compliance Needs
Compliance is a key concern for any business that works in sensitive 
industries like healthcare, or a company doing business in Europe that must 
comply with local laws. Even if you know your compliance requirements 
well, listing them all (ISO 27001 & 27002, HIPAA, GDPR)  is a key step before 
looking at any service provider. 
Using an IdP with SSO 
and MFA support is 
best when moving to 
a converged network 
security solution.

--- Página 6 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 6
Perimeter 81’s 	
full-featured, cloud-
based network security 
solution checks all the 
boxes.
Research Solutions Based on Assessments Above
Once you’ve got everything figured out in terms of infrastructure, needs and 
goals, and compliance requirements, you have an excellent list to take with 
you during product research. 
There are many different options to consider here as well. Do you want a 
full Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) or Network-as-a-Service (NaaS) platform 
where all deployment is taken care of by the service provider, or do you want 
something more DIY and customizable? Most companies want a service 
that reduces the burden on their IT teams so they can spend more time 
monitoring for threats, and assisting end users. 
Nevertheless, there are cloud solutions that require more manual 
deployment; however, these companies tend to be pure cloud VPN or Zero 
Trust solutions without additional components such as cloud firewalls and 
secure web gateways–key factors for a complete cloud-based network 
security solution.
Perimeter 81 Checks All the Boxes
Perimeter 81 has a full-featured, cloud-based network security solution 
that can help segment your resources, and keep your employees and data 
secure. Perimeter 81’s ZTNA solution allows companies to continually verify 
that employees are meeting authentication standards for accessing company 
resources with DPC and context-based checks. 
The platform also supports the major single sign-on identity providers 
including Google, Jumpcloud, Microsoft’s Azure Active Directory, Okta, and 
OneLogin. There is also SCIM support for those with homegrown SSOs, and 
SAML 2.0 for companies that use multiple providers. 
Perimeter 81’s platform can help you meet compliance burdens for ISO 27001 
and 27002, HIPAA, SOC 2 Type 2, and the GDPR. 
Finally, the Perimeter 81 platform can build a network for your company 
in minutes and have you up and running in just a few hours, depending on 
company size.

--- Página 7 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 7
What Cloud-native Network Security Can Do for Your 
Business
There are multiple business benefits when using a cloud-based network 
security solution. It’s fast to deploy since there is no hardware burden for 
your internal team. Deployment is just a matter of choosing the best PoP 
locations for your cloud network and connecting your services. 
There are also significant cost savings since a cloud-native solution helps 
you do away with expensive appliances such as SD-Wan, VPN, and branch 
office firewalls. The reduction of hardware also relieves your team of 
significant maintenance time for urgent security patches, operating system 
upgrades, and, in some cases, malware signature updates. 
There’s also no need to worry about oversubscribing with Perimeter 81 since 
you only need to purchase the number of seats you need. Then as the needs 
of the business grow you can expand your requirements at the click of a 
button. Compare that to the legacy approach where “forklift upgrades” to 
more costly machines with greater capacity are the norm.
Reaching Internal Consensus
If there are other stakeholders that need to get onboard with your move to 
cloud-native network security we suggest discussing Perimeter 81’s findings 
with them. You can find more details in our latest State of Cybersecurity 
Report. 
It’s also a good idea to show what the day-to-day benefits will look like from 
tools such as ZTNA (our ZTNA datasheet can help you there). Another option 
is to show a scenario of what a potential breach would look like without a 
cloud-native network security approach versus having one in place. Imagine 
a hacker obtaining employee login credentials from a marketing employee, 
for example, and how they wouldn’t be able to use that login to break into 
the codebase or HR records–or gain access at all if location and time-of-day 
contexts are used. 
Contact us today to set-up a demo to see the Perimeter 81 platform in action, 
or start building your secure network right away via our intuitive dashboard.
There are multiple 
business benefits 
when using a cloud-
based network 
security solution.

--- Página 8 ---
All rights reserved. Perimeter 81 | 2021
| 8
Contact Us
Perimeter 81 Ltd.
sales@perimeter81.com
https://www.perimeter81.com
Request a Demo
Perimeter 81 is a robust, yet easy-to-use, converged networking and 
network security platform which connects all users, in the office or remote, 
to all resources, located on-prem, or clouds. It is a cloud-native service that 
includes advanced capabilities such as Zero Trust remote access, Internet 
access control, malware protection and firewall as a service. It enables any 
business to build a secure corporate network over a private global backbone, 
without hardware and within minutes. The entire service is managed from a 
unified console and is backed by an award-winning global support team that 
has you covered 24/7.

