=== NIST CSF Checklist (2).pdf ===

--- Página 2 ---
Function 
Category 
Subcategory 
Guidance 
Artefacts to evidence 
IDENTIFY (ID) 
Asset Management (ID.AM): 
The data, personnel, devices, 
systems, and facilities that 
enable the organization to 
achieve business purposes are 
identified and managed 
consistent with their relative 
importance to business 
objectives and the 
organization’s risk strategy. 
ID.AM-1: Physical devices and 
systems within the organization are 
inventoried 
Document and implement a formal Asset Management 
Policy that establishes assets inventory and methods of 
inventory whether it is conducted manually or with help 
of automatic tools. 
Asset Management Policy 
For each asset organization must document sufficient 
information to identify the asset, its physical (or logical) 
location, and information security classification. 
Asset Inventory 
The organization will maintain a current inventory of all 
hardware (including operating systems) including type, 
publisher, version, location or workforce members-
assignment, in-service date, and retirement/disposal 
date. 
Comprehensive network diagram 
that includes allowed ports, 
protocols and services. 
Inventories should be reviewed to ensure that all 
firmware versions are current and supported by the 
publisher with security updates. 
Asset Inventory with versions of 
firmware 
ID.AM-2: Software platforms and 
applications within the organization 
are inventoried 
Define, document and implement procedures for 
handling unauthorized software. The software should be 
either approved or eliminated by the administrator. 
Software Asset Management Policy 
The organization will maintain a current inventory of all 
software (including operating systems) including type, 
publisher, version, location or workforce members-
assignment, in-service date, and retirement/disposal 
date. 
Software Asset Inventory 
Inventories should be reviewed to ensure that all 
software versions are current and supported by the 
publisher with security updates. 
Software Asset Inventory 
ID.AM-3: Organizational 
communication and data flows are 
mapped 
Document all connections within the organization, and 
between departments. All connections must be 
documented, authorized, and reviewed. Connection 
information includes, for example, the interface 
characteristics, data characteristics, ports, protocols, 
addresses, description of the data, security 
requirements, and the nature of the connection. 
Data Flow diagram 
Establish and document guidelines for electronic 
messaging usage which make users aware of what 
deems as acceptable and unacceptable use of its 
corporate messaging process. 
End user policy & guidelines

--- Página 3 ---
Create and implement Acceptable Use Policy, include 
these guidelines into the policy. 
Acceptable Use Policy 
Diagram organizational communications flows, including 
cloud services. 
Network and Logical diagram / Data 
Flow Diagrams 
ID.AM-4: External information 
systems are catalogued 
Inventory cloud services and other external systems. 
Cloud Asset Inventory 
ID.AM-5: Resources (e.g., hardware, 
devices, data, and software) are 
prioritized based on their 
classification, criticality, and 
business value 
Develop and implement information classification based 
on impact level classification. Information should be 
classified based on its value. 
Information Classification Standard 
Classification guidelines should take into account impact 
from loss of integrity, availability and confidentiality of 
the information. 
Information Classification Standard 
Implement formal procedures describing prioritization of 
organizational assets based on their importance to 
organizational systems 
Asset Classification & Valuation 
Procedure 
ID.AM-6: Cybersecurity roles and 
responsibilities for the entire 
workforce and third-party 
stakeholders (e.g., suppliers, 
customers, partners) are 
established 
Establish strict requirements that obligates each policy 
to contain cybersecurity roles. 
Roles have to be widely communicated to all relevant 
parties. 
Information Security Roles & 
Responsibilities 
Third-party providers are required to notify the 
organization of any personnel transition (including 
transfers or terminations) involving personnel with 
physical or logical access to the production system 
components. 
Security Awareness and Training 
Policy 
Business Environment (ID.BE): 
The organization’s mission, 
objectives, stakeholders, and 
activities are understood and 
prioritized; this information is 
used to inform cybersecurity 
roles, responsibilities, and risk 
management decisions. 
ID.BE-1: The organization’s role in 
the supply chain is identified and 
communicated 
Ensure the supplier management policy is defined. 
Supplier Security Management 
Policy 
Define information security requirements to apply to 
product or service acquisition in addition to the general 
requirements for supplier relationships 
Supplier Security Management 
Procedure 
ID.BE-2: The organization’s place in 
critical infrastructure and its 
industry sector is identified and 
communicated 
Define, document and communicate critical 
infrastructure and key resources relevant to the 
company’s production activity. 
BC-DR Recovery Document 
Develop, document, and maintain a critical 
infrastructure and key resources protection plan. 
BC-DR Recovery Document 
ID.BE-3: Priorities for organizational 
mission, objectives, and activities 
are established and communicated 
Establish and communicate priorities for production 
activities, missions, objectives, with consideration for 
Information security policy aligned 
with the organization's vision and 
mission.

--- Página 4 ---
security. Make sure cybersecurity priorities align with 
business needs and priorities. 
ID.BE-4: Dependencies and critical 
functions for delivery of critical 
services are established 
Write down procedures describing all alternate power 
support services. Establish regular ability and capacity 
testing of alternative support services. 
BC-DR procedure 
ID.BE-5: Resilience requirements to 
support delivery of critical services 
are established 
Conduct contingency planning for the continuance of 
essential production functions and services with little or 
no loss of operational continuity, and sustain that 
continuity until full system restoration. 
BC-DR Plan 
Communicate that planning to all relevant parties, so 
that they are aware of their roles, responsibilities and 
procedures. 
Email Communication Artifacts with 
R&R 
Governance (ID.GV): The 
policies, procedures, and 
processes to manage and 
monitor the organization’s 
regulatory, legal, risk, 
environmental, and 
operational requirements are 
understood and inform the 
management of cybersecurity 
risk. 
ID.GV-1: Organizational information 
security policy is established 
Establish an organizational information security policy 
Information Security Policy 
Divide security rules into several policies like Access 
Control Policy, Classification Policy, Backup Policy, 
Acceptable Use Policy, etc. – this way such policies will 
be shorter (and therefore easier to read and 
understand), and easier to maintain. Policies must 
include, for example, the identification and assignment 
of roles, responsibilities, management commitment, 
coordination among organizational entities, and 
compliance. 
Information Security Policy 
Establish and communicate existing cybersecurity 
policies to all relevant parties. 
Email Communication Artifacts with 
R&R 
ID.GV-2: Information security roles 
& responsibilities are coordinated 
and aligned with internal roles and 
external partners 
Describe and establish cybersecurity roles, 
responsibilities and procedures related to internal roles 
within the whole organization and external partners. 
Roles & Responsibilities for internal 
& external stakeholders 
ID.GV-3: Legal and regulatory 
requirements regarding 
cybersecurity, including privacy and 
civil liberties obligations, are 
understood and managed 
Identify and document all legal and regulatory 
requirements regarding cybersecurity. 
Legal & regulatory requirements as 
captured in InfoSec policy 
Make sure that requirements related to legal and 
regulatory requirements affecting the production 
operations regarding cybersecurity are understood, 
managed and widely communicated between all 
relevant departments. 
Artifacts of communication

--- Página 5 ---
ID.GV-4: Governance and risk 
management processes address 
cybersecurity risks 
Establish Risk Management Process; 
Create a Risk Management Framework document that 
would contain risk factors: threats, vulnerabilities, 
impacts, likelihoods, risk levels matrix. These factors are 
important for the organization to document prior to 
conducting risk assessment because the assessment 
relies upon well-defined attributes of threats, 
vulnerabilities, impact, and other risk factors to 
effectively determine risk. 
Risk Management Process 
Risk Assessment (ID.RA): The 
organization understands the 
cybersecurity risk to 
organizational operations 
(including mission, functions, 
image, or reputation), 
organizational assets, and 
individuals. 
ID.RA-1: Asset vulnerabilities are 
identified and documented 
Define and document Vulnerability Management 
process for assets defining roles & responsibilities. 
Vulnerability Management Process 
ID.RA-2: Threat and vulnerability 
information is received from 
information sharing forums and 
sources 
Consider the possibility of receiving cyber threat 
intelligence.  
Threat intelligence feeds take security data from 
vendors, analysts and other sources about threats and 
unusual activity happening all around the world. 
Malicious IP addresses, domains, file hashes and other 
data stream in constantly from external parties. 
Artifacts of subscription to 
forums/newsletters etc 
ID.RA-3: Threats, both internal and 
external, are identified and 
documented 
Conduct Vulnerability Scanning against internal 
environment(ESXi servers, users laptops: Windows OS, 
Mac OS, GNU/Linux) 
Conduct Penetration test and remediation testing of 
both infrastructure and web applications annually. 
VA-PT reports 
ID.RA-4: Potential business impacts 
and likelihoods are identified 
Develop potential business impacts and likelihood 
ranges within the risk assessment process. 
Risk Assessment Methodology 
ID.RA-5: Threats, vulnerabilities, 
likelihoods, and impacts are used to 
determine risk 
Define, document and implement a formal risk 
assessment process. 
Risk Assessment Methodology 
ID.RA-6: Risk responses are 
identified and prioritized 
Identify and prioritize risk responses within the risk 
assessment process. 
Risk Assessment Methodology 
Risk Management Strategy 
(ID.RM): The organization’s 
priorities, constraints, risk 
tolerances, and assumptions 
are established and used to 
support operational risk 
decisions. 
ID.RM-1: Risk management 
processes are established, 
managed, and agreed to by 
organizational stakeholders 
Establish Risk Management Process; 
Create Risk Management Framework document that 
would contain risk factors: threats, vulnerabilities, 
impacts, likelihoods, risk levels matrix. These factors are 
important for the organization to document prior to 
conducting risk assessment because the assessment rely 
upon well-defined attributes of threats, vulnerabilities, 
Risk Management Process

--- Página 6 ---
impact, and other risk factors to effectively determine 
risk. 
ID.RM-2: Organizational risk 
tolerance is determined and clearly 
expressed 
Adjust Risk Assessment Framework so that it includes 
the criteria for accepting risk and identifying the 
acceptable level of (e.g. at what level can risk 
automatically be accepted and under what 
circumstances). 
Risk Assessment Framework 
Approval should be obtained from top management for 
the decision to accept residual risks, and authorization 
obtained for the actual operation of the ISMS. 
Management Approval/MoM 
ID.RM-3: The organization’s 
determination of risk tolerance is 
informed by its role in critical 
infrastructure and sector specific 
risk analysis 
To maximize the benefit of risk assessments, the 
organization should establish policies, procedures, and 
implementing mechanisms to ensure that the 
information produced during such assessments is 
effectively communicated and shared across all risk 
management tiers. 
Risk Assessment Framework 
PROTECT (PR) 
Access Control (PR.AC): Access 
to assets and associated 
facilities is limited to 
authorized users, processes, 
or devices, and to authorized 
activities and transactions. 
PR.AC-1: Identities and credentials 
are managed for authorized devices 
and users 
Define, document and implement a process for asset 
owners to review access rights to their assets on a 
regular basis. Review and verify processes with all 
relevant parties. 
Access Control Policy 
PR.AC-2: Physical access to assets is 
managed and protected 
Define, document and implement procedures in Access 
Control Policy that would describe roles and 
responsibilities related to physical access. 
Access Control Policy 
PR.AC-3: Remote access is managed 
Define and establish remote working/teleworking policy 
Teleworking policy 
Allow remote access only through approved and 
managed access points; 
User Access Management Policy for 
Remote Access 
Monitor remote access to the production system. 
User Access Management Policy for 
Remote Access 
Allow only authorized use of privileged functions from 
remote access. 
User Access Management Policy for 
Remote Access 
Establish agreements and verify security for connections 
with external systems. 
User Access Management Policy for 
Remote Access 
PR.AC-4: Access permissions are 
managed, incorporating the 
Incorporate principle of least privilege, segregation of 
duties, role based access 
User Access Management Policy

--- Página 7 ---
principles of least privilege and 
separation of duties 
Regularly review user access rights of all critical assets 
and other assets of the organization 
User Access Management Policy 
PR.AC-5: Network integrity is 
protected, incorporating network 
segregation where appropriate 
Incorporate network segmentation where applicable via 
VLAN, DMZ. 
Network Security Policy & Network 
Diagram 
Awareness and Training 
(PR.AT): The organization’s 
personnel and partners are 
provided cybersecurity 
awareness education and are 
adequately trained to perform 
their information security-
related duties and 
responsibilities consistent 
with related policies, 
procedures, and agreements. 
PR.AT-1: All users are informed and 
trained 
Define, document and implement Security Awareness 
and Training Policy that defines scope, procedures, 
topics, roles and responsibilities in terms of Security 
Awareness and Training Program. 
Security awareness presentation 
Implement an information security workforce 
development and improvement programs which include, 
for example: defining the knowledge and skill levels 
needed to perform information security duties and 
tasks; 
Security assessment results 
Use anecdotes from actual information security 
incidents in user awareness training as examples of what 
could happen, how to respond to such incidents and 
how to avoid them in the future. 
Security awareness presentation 
PR.AT-2: Privileged users 
understand roles & responsibilities 
Establish specific cybersecurity awareness and training 
procedures for privileged users (e.g. developers) 
describing acceptable and unacceptable activities at the 
workplace. 
Roles & Responsibilities 
PR.AT-3: Third-party stakeholders 
(e.g., suppliers, customers, 
partners) understand roles & 
responsibilities 
Define cybersecurity roles and responsibilities within 
Security Awareness and Training Policy. 
Roles & Responsibilities 
PR.AT-4: Senior executives 
understand roles & responsibilities 
Define cybersecurity roles and responsibilities within 
Security Awareness and Training Policy. 
Roles & Responsibilities 
Data Security (PR.DS): 
Information and records 
(data) are managed consistent 
with the organization’s risk 
strategy to protect the 
confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of information. 
PR.DS-1: Data-at-rest is protected 
Create and implement procedures which describe how 
to encrypt all data of the organization. 
Data encryption process 
PR.DS-2: Data-in-transit is protected 
Create and implement procedures which will describe 
how data should be transferred. For example which 
corporate messenger employees should use for 
communication or how to correct obfuscated data 
before transfer or how to choose a protected way for 
transferring data. 
Data transfer procedure/Data 
protection policy

--- Página 8 ---
Conduct trade-off analysis of data protection solutions 
with policies that enable user prompting, blocking, or 
automatic encryption for sensitive data in transit, such 
as when files are attached to an email message or 
moved to cloud storage, removable drives, or 
transferred elsewhere. 
Data Protection Policy 
Encryption in Data in Transit 
Ensure your Information Classification Policy requires 
classifying all company data, no matter where it resides, 
in order to ensure that the appropriate data protection 
measures are applied while data remains at rest and 
triggered when data is accessed, used, or transferred. 
Information Classification policy 
Implement SSL/TLS encryption for all HTTP transactions. 
Network Security Policy  
Encryption in Data in Transit 
PR.DS-3: Assets are formally 
managed throughout removal, 
transfers, and disposition 
Document roles, responsibilities and procedures within 
Asset Disposal Process. 
Asset disposal process 
Create procedures that describe the secure formatting 
of data from each media drive. 
Asset disposal process 
Asset Destruction Certificates 
PR.DS-4: Adequate capacity to 
ensure availability is maintained 
Create and implement procedures which will describe 
how to monitor and maintain the capacity and 
availability of both internal and external infrastructure. 
Capacity Management Policy 
Conduct regular performance and load tests for both 
internal and external infrastructure. 
Capacity Management Records 
PR.DS-5: Protections against data 
leaks are implemented 
Conduct incorporating DLP solutions to implement 
protections against data leaks 
Data Protection Policy 
DLP Implementation 
Create and document procedures defining correct 
equipment maintenance outside the organization's 
premises 
Equipment Maintenance SOP 
Confidential information must be protected with Full 
Disk Encryption. You can include these procedures into 
Acceptable Usage Policy. 
Acceptable Use Policy 
PR.DS-6: Integrity checking 
mechanisms are used to verify 
software, firmware, and 
information integrity 
Define, document and implement procedures for 
handling unauthorized software. The software should be 
whether approved or eliminated by the administrator; 
Secure Software Development 
Policy 
PR.DS-7: The development and 
testing environment(s) are separate 
from the production environment 
Implement fully functional testing environments, so that 
test cases can be performed without fear of causing 
damage to the production environment. 
Secure Software Development 
Policy 
Test Environment

--- Página 9 ---
Information Protection 
Processes and Procedures 
(PR.IP): Security policies (that 
address purpose, scope, roles, 
responsibilities, management 
commitment, and 
coordination among 
organizational entities), 
processes, and procedures are 
maintained and used to 
manage protection of 
information systems and 
assets. 
PR.IP-1: A baseline configuration of 
information technology/industrial 
control systems is created and 
maintained 
Develop, document, and maintain a baseline 
configuration for the organization. 
Baseline configuration document 
Configure the production to provide only essential 
capabilities; 
Secure Software Development 
Policy 
Review and update the baseline configuration and 
disable unnecessary capabilities; 
Secure Software Development 
Policy 
Focus on securing the highest privilege accounts and 
groups. You should do so because they can be leveraged 
by attackers to compromise and even destroy your 
Active Directory installation. 
User Access Management Policy  
PR.IP-2: A System Development Life 
Cycle to manage systems is 
implemented 
Consider use of Secure Code Development practices 
where appropriate. 
Secure code development guidelines 
Create and implement Software Development Life Cycle 
(SDLC) Policy that would describe the requirements for 
developing and/or implementing new software and 
systems. 
SDLC policy 
PR.IP-3: Configuration change 
control processes are in place 
Develop a change management policy along with 
detailed procedures describing:  
- Conduct security impact analysis in connection with 
change control reviews. 
- Conduct security impact analysis in a separate test 
environment before implementation into an operational 
environment for planned changes to the production. 
- Review and authorize proposed configuration-
controlled changes prior to implementing them in the 
production environment. 
Change Management policy 
PR.IP-4: Backups of information are 
conducted, maintained, and tested 
periodically 
Create and implement Backup Policy which will describe 
backup procedures, retention periods, types of backups, 
scope, roles and responsibilities. 
Backup policy 
Conduct periodic Backup restoration testing 
Backup restoration testing reports 
PR.IP-5: Policy and regulations 
regarding the physical operating 
environment for organizational 
assets are met 
Define, implement, and enforce policy and regulations 
regarding emergency and safety systems, fire protection 
systems, and environment controls. 
Physical Security Policy 
Implement secondary commercial power supply like UPS 
and/or diesel generators. 
Physical Security Policy 
Secondary Source of Power

--- Página 10 ---
PR.IP-6: Data is destroyed according 
to policy 
Ensure that organization system data is destroyed 
according to policy. 
Data destruction policy 
Implement regular testing of effectiveness of technical 
data destruction mechanisms, how they are measured 
and evaluated. 
Data destruction procedures 
PR.IP-7: Protection processes are 
continuously improved 
Implement The Follow-up Phase within your Incident 
Response policies that would represent the review of 
the Security Incident to look for “lessons learned” and to 
determine whether the process that was followed could 
have been improved in any way. 
Incident Response Procedure 
Security Events and Security Incidents should be 
reviewed after identification resolution to determine 
where response could be improved. 
Incident Response Procedure 
PR.IP-8: Effectiveness of protection 
technologies is shared with 
appropriate parties 
Share information about security incidents and 
mitigation measures with designated sharing partners; 
Incident Communication Plan 
Use automated mechanisms where feasible to assist in 
information collaboration. 
Incident Communication Plan 
PR.IP-9: Response plans (Incident 
Response and Business Continuity) 
and recovery plans (Incident 
Recovery and Disaster Recovery) 
are in place and managed 
Plans must incorporate recovery objectives, restoration 
priorities, metrics, contingency roles, personnel 
assignments and contact information. 
Incident Response Plan / Business 
Continuity Plan 
Conduct regular (quarterly) review of Incident Response 
and Disaster Recovery plans to keep them up-to-date. 
IR/BCP/DR Test Calendar 
IR/BCP/DR  Test Records 
PR.IP-10: Response and recovery 
plans are tested 
Conduct regular testing of response and recovery plans, 
make records, evaluate effectiveness. 
Test reports of the DR plans 
PR.IP-11: Cybersecurity is included 
in human resources practices (e.g., 
deprovisioning, personnel 
screening) 
Define, document and implement Onboarding Policy. 
HR policy/Onboarding policy 
Include personnel screening procedures within the 
policy. 
BGV policy 
Maintenance (PR.MA): 
Maintenance and repairs of 
industrial control and 
information system 
components is performed 
consistent with policies and 
procedures. 
PR.MA-1: Maintenance and repair 
of organizational assets is 
performed and logged in a timely 
manner, with approved and 
controlled tools 
Document and communicate procedures of 
maintenance and repairs to all relevant stakeholders. 
For example, to prevent data leakage check whether full 
disk encryption is enabled or hard drive is removed 
before sending the laptop to repair service. 
Equipment Maintenance SOP 
PR.MA-2: Remote maintenance of 
organizational assets is approved, 
logged, and performed in a manner 
that prevents unauthorized access 
Establish, implement and communicate formal 
procedures which would describe how the organization: 
- Approves and monitors nonlocal maintenance and 
diagnostic activities; 
Remote Access Policy

--- Página 11 ---
- Allows the use of nonlocal maintenance and diagnostic 
tools only as consistent with organizational policy and 
documented in the security plan for the information 
system; 
- Employs strong authenticators in the establishment of 
nonlocal maintenance and diagnostic sessions; 
- Maintains records for nonlocal maintenance and 
diagnostic activities; 
- Terminates session and network connections when 
nonlocal maintenance is completed. 
Unify procedures into Remote Maintenance Policy or 
include them into Acceptable Use Policy. 
Acceptable Use Policy 
Protective Technology (PR.PT): 
Technical security solutions 
are managed to ensure the 
security and resilience of 
systems and assets, consistent 
with related policies, 
procedures, and agreements. 
PR.PT-1: Audit/log records are 
determined, documented, 
implemented, and reviewed in 
accordance with policy 
Create and implement a policy which will describe how 
to contain information that establishes what type of 
event occurred, when the event occurred, where the 
event occurred, the source of the event, the outcome of 
the event, and the identity of any individuals or 
organizational components associated with the event. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
PR.PT-2: Removable media is 
protected and its use restricted 
according to policy 
Create and implement a policy which would describe 
how to protect and control portable storage devices 
containing critical data while in transit and in storage. 
Removable media policy 
Scan all portable storage devices for malicious content 
before they are used within the organization. 
Asset Management policy with 
Removable Media Security 
Consider restricting the use of portable storage devices 
within the departments where appropriate. 
Asset Management policy with 
Removable Media Security 
PR.PT-3: Access to systems and 
assets is controlled, incorporating 
the principle of least functionality 
Ensure criteria used for granting access privileges is 
based on the principle of “least privilege” whereby 
authorized users will only be granted access to 
information system and network domains which are 
necessary for them to carry out the responsibilities of 
their company role or function. 
Access Control Policy 
Relying on CI/CD best practices, developers are not 
expected to be experts at operations concerns. Assign 
one Application Operator who would have permissions 
to manage the continuous delivery process for apps. 
Deny collective decision-making in the process of a 
release. 
Secure Software Development 
Policy

--- Página 12 ---
Follow the least functionality principle. Document 
procedures within Access Control Policy. 
User Access Control Policy 
PR.PT-4: Communications and 
control networks are protected 
Continuously monitor the communications and control 
networks and ensure they are always updated with best 
practices and controls. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Network Monitoring Records 
Eliminate incoming or outgoing traffic if it doesn’t align 
with business goals. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Network Monitoring Records 
Ensure that there are no publicly accessible cloud 
instances 
Log Monitoring Policy 
DETECT (DE) 
Anomalies and Events (DE.AE): 
Anomalous activity is detected 
in a timely manner and the 
potential impact of events is 
understood. 
DE.AE-1: A baseline of network 
operations and expected data flows 
for users and systems is established 
and managed 
Implement automated mechanisms that help the 
organization maintain consistent baseline configurations 
for information systems include, for example: 
- hardware and software inventory tools, 
- configuration management tools, 
- network management tools. 
IS Baseline Documents 
DE.AE-2: Detected events are 
analysed to understand attack 
targets and methods 
Events should be collected and forwarded to log 
management solutions so that administrators can 
analyse suspicious events. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
Events should be collected from internal Windows 
Servers, Domain Controllers, etc and also from external 
facing servers and applications and customer 
applications. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
DE.AE-3: Event data are aggregated 
and correlated from multiple 
sources and sensors 
Consider implementing correlation rules within your log 
management solutions to automate threat detection 
and log analysis. Consider acquiring a SIEM solution. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
Ensure that event data is compiled and correlated across 
the organization system using various sources such as 
event reports, audit monitoring, network monitoring, 
physical access monitoring, and user/administrator 
reports. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
Integrate analysis of events where feasible with the 
analysis of vulnerability scanning information; 
performance data; production systems monitoring, and 
facility monitoring to further enhance the ability to 
identify inappropriate or unusual activity. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
DE.AE-4: Impact of events is 
determined 
Test ability and effectiveness of Priority Matrix to 
measure the influence on the business on a regular 
basis. 
Incident Priority Matrix

--- Página 13 ---
Share effectiveness with relevant stakeholders. 
Incident Reporting 
DE.AE-5: Incident alert thresholds 
are established 
Establish the incident threshold matrix along with the 
expected time of resolution. 
Incident Priority Matrix 
Monitor and optimize Expected time to resolution. 
Incident Management Policy 
Security Continuous 
Monitoring (DE.CM): The 
information system and assets 
are monitored at discrete 
intervals to identify 
cybersecurity events and 
verify the effectiveness of 
protective measures. 
DE.CM-1: The network is monitored 
to detect potential cybersecurity 
events 
Implement correlation rules within the log management 
solutions to automate threat detection and log analysis. 
Consider acquiring a SIEM solution. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
DE.CM-2: The physical environment 
is monitored to detect potential 
cybersecurity events 
Define, document and implement procedures in Access 
Control Policy that would describe roles and 
responsibilities related to physical access. 
Access Control Policy 
DE.CM-3: Personnel activity is 
monitored to detect potential 
cybersecurity events 
Implement correlation rules within the log management 
solutions to automate threat detection and log analysis. 
Consider acquiring a SIEM solution. SIEM solution 
involves installing forwarders on users workstation. Logs 
are forwarded from workstation to SIEM. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules 
DE.CM-4: Malicious code is 
detected 
Regularly update the anti-virus. Testing of antivirus 
endpoint protection must be conducted based on 
conventional criteria. 
Endpoint Security Policy 
Antivirus Monitoring Records 
DE.CM-5: Unauthorized mobile 
code is detected 
Create and implement a policy which will describe how 
to use Mobile Code Security. 
Endpoint Security Policy 
Establish a process for secure code developing and 
secure data during all development processes in the 
organization. 
Secure Software Development 
Policy 
DE.CM-6: External service provider 
activity is monitored to detect 
potential cybersecurity events 
Create and implement procedures that would describe 
how to: 
- conduct ongoing security status monitoring of external 
service provider activity; 
- detect attacks and indicators of potential attacks from 
external service providers; 
- monitor compliance of external providers with 
personnel security policies and procedures, and 
contract security requirements. 
Supplier Security Policy 
DE.CM-7: Monitoring for 
unauthorized personnel, 
Implement correlation rules within the log management 
solutions to automate threat detection and log analysis. 
Consider acquiring a SIEM solution. SIEM solution 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Log Monitoring Rules

--- Página 14 ---
connections, devices, and software 
is performed 
involves installing forwarders on users workstation. Logs 
are forwarded from workstation to SIEM. 
DE.CM-8: Vulnerability scans are 
performed 
Document and implement vulnerability management 
plan; 
Vulnerability Management Plan 
Detection Processes (DE.DP): 
Detection processes and 
procedures are maintained 
and tested to ensure timely 
and adequate awareness of 
anomalous events. 
DE.DP-1: Roles and responsibilities 
for detection are well defined to 
ensure accountability 
Roles and responsibilities shall be well documented for 
the SOC team and ensure there is proper escalation and 
delegation matrix. 
Roles and Responsibilities of 
Incident management team 
DE.DP-2: Detection activities comply 
with all applicable requirements 
Define, document, implement and communicate 
procedures describing configuring monitoring of services 
before deploying into production 
Configuration SOP, Monitoring SOP 
DE.DP-3: Detection processes are 
tested 
Implement formal procedures which would describe 
how the organization: 
- Creates a process for ensuring that organizational plans 
for conducting security testing, monitoring activities and 
training associated with organizational information 
systems; 
- Ensures that detection testing is executed in a timely 
manner 
- Reviews detection testing and monitoring plans for 
consistency with 
the organizational risk strategy. 
Testing SOP 
DE.DP-4: Event detection 
information is communicated to 
appropriate parties 
Ensure that event detection information is 
communicated to defined personnel. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
Update list of events which must be detected on a 
regular basis. Event detection information includes for 
example, alerts on atypical account usage, unauthorized 
remote access, wireless connectivity, mobile device 
connection, altered configuration settings, contrasting 
system component inventory, use of maintenance tools 
and nonlocal maintenance, physical access, temperature 
and humidity, equipment delivery and removal, 
communications at the information system boundaries, 
use of mobile code, use of VoIP, and malware disclosure. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
DE.DP-5: Detection processes are 
continuously improved 
Incorporate improvements derived from the monitoring, 
measurements, assessments, and lessons learned into 
detection process revisions. 
Incident Management Policy with 
Lessons Learned

--- Página 15 ---
Ensure the security plan for the production system 
provides for the review, testing, and continual 
improvement of the security detection processes; 
Incident Management Policy with 
Lessons Learned 
Employ independent teams to assess the detection 
process; 
Incident Management Policy with 
Lessons Learned 
Try to enrich your detection assessments including: 
- vulnerability scanning; 
- malicious user testing; 
- insider threat assessment; 
- performance/load testing;. 
- verification and validation testing. 
Incident Management Policy with 
Lessons Learned 
RESPOND 
(RS) 
Response Planning (RS.RP): 
Response processes and 
procedures are executed and 
maintained, to ensure timely 
response to detected 
cybersecurity events. 
RS.RP-1: Response plan is executed 
during or after an event 
Incident Response, Incident Management processes, 
plans, policies should include: 
- Roles and Responsibilities employees 
- Detection Phase 
- Analysis Phase 
- Containment Phase 
- Mitigation Phase 
- Eradication Phase 
- Recovery Phase 
- Post-Incident Activities Ensure above mentioned 
activities are executed during or after an incident; 
IS Incident management Policy 
Create a detailed IT Incident Management Process 
highlighting roles & responsibilities of each personnel 
involved. 
IT Incident management Policy 
Implement Incident Handling Checklists within your 
Incident Management processes, plans and policies, so 
that each team will take the appropriate sequence of 
actions depending on the type of incident. 
Incident Handling Checklists 
Communications (RS.CO): 
Response activities are 
coordinated with internal and 
external stakeholders, as 
appropriate, to include 
RS.CO-1: Personnel know their roles 
and order of operations when a 
response is needed 
Ensure personnel understand objectives, restoration 
priorities, task sequences and assignment 
responsibilities for event or incident response. 
IT Security team composition 
document 
Communicate procedures relevant to event or incident 
response to all relevant parties. 
Incident Communication procedures

--- Página 16 ---
external support from law 
enforcement agencies. 
Update Incident Management and IT Security Incident 
Response policies on a regular basis. 
Revision history of Incident 
Management and IT Security 
Incident Response policies 
RS.CO-2: Events are reported 
consistent with established criteria 
Create Security Incident Response Report Form to 
support the reporting action and to help the person 
reporting to remember all necessary actions in case of 
an information security event. 
Security Incident Response Form 
RS.CO-3: Information is shared 
consistent with response plans 
Share cybersecurity incident information with relevant 
stakeholders per the response plan drafted initially. 
Security Incident Response Form 
RS.CO-4: Coordination with 
stakeholders occurs consistent with 
response plans 
Coordinate cybersecurity incident response actions with 
all relevant stakeholders. 
Stakeholders for incident response include, for example, 
mission/business owners, manufacturing system 
owners, integrators, vendors, human resources offices, 
physical and personnel security offices, legal 
departments, operations personnel, and procurement 
offices. 
Security Incident Response Plan 
RS.CO-5: Voluntary information 
sharing occurs with external 
stakeholders to achieve broader 
cybersecurity situational awareness 
Share cybersecurity event information voluntarily, as 
appropriate, with industry security groups to achieve 
broader cybersecurity awareness. Based on risk 
assessment, decide whether cooperation and 
information sharing with Cyber Police and other relevant 
regulatory bodies are needed. 
Incident Communication procedures 
& Security Incident Response Plan 
Analysis (RS.AN): Analysis is 
conducted to ensure adequate 
response and support 
recovery activities. 
RS.AN-1: Notifications from 
detection systems are investigated 
Create and document formal procedures of events 
investigation, define roles and responsibilities, 
implement metrics, determine effectiveness. 
IS Incident management Policy 
Consider implementation of security orchestration 
solutions to automate decision making. 
Log Monitoring Policy 
RS.AN-2: The impact of the incident 
is understood 
Conduct quantitative and qualitive risk analysis of 
impacted assets. Correlate detected event information 
and incident responses with risk assessment outcomes 
to achieve perspective on incident impact across the 
organization. 
Security Incident Policy 
RS.AN-3: Forensics are performed 
Conduct forensic analysis on collected cybersecurity 
event information to determine root cause. Consider 
outsourcing on-demand audit reviews, analysis, and 
reporting for investigations of cybersecurity incidents. 
Security Incident Policy with 
Forensics 
RS.AN-4: Incidents are categorized 
consistent with response plans 
Develop severity categories to assess cybersecurity 
incidents within each Incident Response plan, policy or 
process. 
IS Incident management Plan with 
severity categories

--- Página 17 ---
Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities 
are performed to prevent 
expansion of an event, 
mitigate its effects, and 
eradicate the incident. 
RS.MI-1: Incidents are contained 
Describe and include Containment Phase that limits the 
root cause of the Security Incident to prevent further 
damage or exposure. 
Containment Phase might include following steps: 
- Short-term Containment; 
- System Back-Up; 
- Long-term containment. 
Detailed Incident Management plan 
with all phases 
RS.MI-2: Incidents are mitigated 
The organization must describe metrics which need to 
be collected to mitigate future incidents. The 
organization should decide what incident data to collect 
based on reporting requirements and on the expected 
return on investment from the data (e.g., identifying a 
new threat and mitigating the related vulnerabilities 
before they can be exploited.) Possible metrics for 
incident-related data include: 
- Number of Incidents Handled; 
- Time Per Incident; 
- Objective Assessment of Each Incident; 
- Subjective Assessment of Each Incident. 
Incident Response Plan  
Incident Management Metrics 
RS.MI-3: Newly identified 
vulnerabilities are mitigated or 
documented as accepted risks 
Create Vulnerability Management Policy procedures 
which will describe how to document and mitigate 
accepted risks and new vulnerabilities. For example, 
how to isolate a vulnerable environment if there doesn’t 
exist a solution to fix vulnerability and how to handle 
acceptable risks. 
Vulnerability Management Policy 
procedures 
Improvements (RS.IM): 
Organizational response 
activities are improved by 
incorporating lessons learned 
from current and previous 
detection/response activities. 
RS.IM-1: Response plans 
incorporate lessons learned 
Incorporate lessons learned from ongoing incident 
handling activities into incident response procedures, 
training, and testing, and implement the resulting 
changes accordingly; 
Write down lessons learned procedures into each 
incident response policy, procedure or process. 
Incident Response Plan with Lessons 
Learned 
RS.IM-2: Response strategies are 
updated 
Regularly update "Incident management" and "IT 
security incident response team composition" 
Updates may include, for example, responses to 
disruptions or failures, and predetermined procedures. 
Incident Response Plan  
RECOVER (RC) 
Recovery Planning (RC.RP): 
Recovery processes and 
procedures are executed and 
maintained to ensure timely 
RC.RP-1: Recovery plan is executed 
during or after an event 
Document a detailed Disaster recovery plan that 
describes recovery procedures of internal infrastructure, 
cloud infrastructure, roles and responsibilities, 
escalation matrix, DRP timelines. 
Disaster recovery plan

--- Página 18 ---
restoration of systems or 
assets affected by 
cybersecurity events. 
Make a checklist of all your critical assets which can 
include the applications, processes, servers etc. 
DRP Checklist 
Improvements (RC.IM): 
Recovery planning and 
processes are improved by 
incorporating lessons learned 
into future activities. 
RC.IM-1: Recovery plans 
incorporate lessons learned 
Conduct the DR drill on a regular basis and capture all 
the drill activities step by step. Applicable lessons 
learned from previous incidents should be continuously 
incorporated and also shared with the users. 
Disaster recovery plan 
Improving user awareness regarding incidents should 
reduce the frequency of incidents, particularly those 
involving malicious code and violations of acceptable use 
policies. 
DR User awareness 
RC.IM-2: Recovery strategies are 
updated 
The Disaster Recovery Plan should be reviewed for 
accuracy and completeness at least annually, as well as 
upon significant changes to any element of the DRP 
system, mission/business processes supported by the 
system, or resources used for recovery procedures. 
Elements of the plan subject to frequent changes, such 
as contact lists, should be reviewed and updated more 
frequently. Update schedules should be stated in the 
DRP. 
Disaster recovery plan 
Communications (RC.CO): 
Restoration activities are 
coordinated with internal and 
external parties, such as 
coordinating centers, Internet 
Service Providers, owners of 
attacking systems, victims, 
other CSIRTs, and vendors. 
RC.CO-1: Public relations are 
managed 
Create a procedures which will include follows things: 
managing media interactions, coordinating and logging 
all requests for interviews, handling and ‘triaging’ phone 
calls and e-mail requests, matching media requests with 
appropriate and available internal experts who are ready 
to be interviewed, screening all of the information 
provided to the media, ensuring personnel are familiar 
with public relations and privacy policies. 
External communication policy 
RC.CO-2: Reputation after an event 
is repaired 
Implement and document crisis response strategies 
which will include actions to shape attributions of the 
crisis, change perceptions of the organization in crisis, 
and reduce the negative effect generated by the crisis. 
Crisis response plan/Data breach 
response plan 
RC.CO-3: Recovery activities are 
communicated to internal 
stakeholders and executive and 
management teams 
Write down detailed descriptions of each procedure 
related to recovery communication(e.g. Notify SA, Notify 
data subjects, Input data in data breach register, etc.) to 
make sure each stakeholder is aware of his/her 
responsibilities. 
Internal Communication Policy

