=== Operational_Risk_Management_in_Banks_Regulatory,_Organisational.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
PALGRAVE MACMILLAN STUDIES IN 
BANKING AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
SERIES EDITOR: PHILIP MOLYNEUX
Regulatory, Organisational and Strategic Issues
Giuliana Birindelli 
and Paola Ferretti 
Operational 
Risk Management 
in Banks

--- Página 2 ---
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking  
and Financial Institutions
Series editor
Philip Molyneux  
Bangor University  
Bangor, UK

--- Página 3 ---
The Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions 
series is international in orientation and includes studies of banking sys-
tems in particular countries or regions as well as contemporary themes 
such as Islamic Banking, Financial Exclusion, Mergers and Acquisitions, 
Risk Management, and IT in Banking. The books focus on research and 
practice and include up to date and innovative studies that cover issues 
which impact banking systems globally.
More information about this series at  
http://www.springer.com/series/14678

--- Página 4 ---
Giuliana Birindelli · Paola Ferretti
Operational Risk 
Management  
in Banks
Regulatory, Organizational  
and Strategic Issues

--- Página 5 ---
Giuliana Birindelli
Department of Management 
and Business Administration 
“G. d’Annunzio” University 
of Chieti-Pescara 
Pescara, Italy
Paola Ferretti
Department of Economics  
and Management 
University of Pisa 
Pisa, Italy
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions
ISBN 978-1-137-59451-8 	
ISBN 978-1-137-59452-5  (eBook)
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5 
Library of Congress Control Number: 2017937472
© The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s) 2017
The author(s) has/have asserted their right(s) to be identified as the author(s) of this work in accordance 
with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are solely and exclusively licensed by the Publisher, whether 
the whole or part of the material is concerned, specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse 
of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in any other physical way, and 
transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by 
similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed.
The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this 
publication does not imply, even in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt 
from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.
The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this 
book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the 
authors or the editors give a warranty, express or implied, with respect to the material contained herein 
or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Cover credit: Helen Dixon/Alamy Stock Photo
Printed on acid-free paper
This Palgrave Macmillan imprint is published by Springer Nature
The registered company is Macmillan Publishers Ltd.
The registered company address is: The Campus, 4 Crinan Street, London, N1 9XW, United Kingdom
This book is the result of the joint efforts of the two authors, who equally contributed to the 
work.

--- Página 6 ---
To Stefano and Giorgio

--- Página 7 ---
vii
1	 Introduction	
  1
2	 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework	
  9
3	 The Regulatory Framework	
  37
4	 Operational Risk Management: Organizational  
and Governance Issues	
  67
5	 Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools	
  111
6	 Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss  
Distribution and Scenario-Based Approaches	
  133
7	 Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks	  169
8	 Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks	  199
Index	
  217
Contents

--- Página 8 ---
ix
Fig. 4.1	 Example of information flow between the OR function  
and internal audit (Garnero 2003)	
  94
Fig. 4.2	 Example of information flow between compliance function  
and OR function (Birindelli and Ferretti 2013)	
  96
Fig. 5.1	 Insurance impact on the Loss distribution curve  
(Scott and Jackson 2002)	
  119
Fig. 6.1	 The scenario funnel (OeNB and FMA 2006)	
  158
Fig. 8.1	 The disclosure rating (own processing)	
  214
List of Figures

--- Página 9 ---
xi
List of Tables
Table 2.1	
Operational losses: cause categories and activity examples 
(Prokopenko and Bondarenko 2012)	
  17
Table 2.2	
BCBS: comparison of risk definitions (Birindelli  
and Ferretti 2013)	
  31
Table 3.1	
Standardized approach: business line, list of activities,  
percentage (EU-CRR 575/2013)	
  41
Table 4.1	
Tasks of OR functions/officers (Metelli 2005)	
  85
Table 4.2	
OR Governance internal structure (Prokopenko  
and Bondarenko 2012)	
  87
Table 5.1	
Insurance recoveries (BCBS 2009)	
  122
Table 5.2	
Insurance recoveries by event type (BCBS 2009)	
  123
Table 7.1	
Types of OR approaches by level of diffusion among banks	   170
Table 7.2	
Size of BCCs participating to the survey—values  
in thousands of euros (own processing)	
  171
Table 7.3	
Responsibility score attributed to the OR function—BCCs  
in Tuscany (own processing)	
  173
Table 7.4	
Engagement in OR management—BCCs in Tuscany  
(own processing)	
  173
Table 7.5	
Engagement in OR management—Federlus BCCs  
(own processing)	
  176

--- Página 10 ---
xii        List of Tables
Table 7.6	 Frequency of use of tools for OR assessment—BCCs  
in Tuscany (own processing)	
  178
Table 7.7	 Frequency of use of tools for OR assessment—Federlus  
BCCs (own processing)	
  180
Table 7.8	 Reasons relevant for calculation of economic capital—mean  
values for BCCs in Tuscany (own processing)	
  181
Table 8.1	 Assignment of the disclosure rating (own processing)	
  213
Table 8.2	 Areas of disclosure: average and maximum value  
(own processing)	
  215

--- Página 11 ---
The many transformations in the banking industry in the last decades 
and the series of banking scandals and collapses have emphasized the 
relevance of operational risk to the extent that the phenomenon has 
drawn the attention of banking supervisory authorities, practitioners 
and scholars. The appearance of operational risk can be linked to sev-
eral elements of change, such as the growing sizes of institutions and 
their greater organizational complexity as well as of the emergence of 
new products and business lines; the technological change and the 
development of e-commerce and e-banking; the more intensive compe-
tition and globalization of the financial market. Finally, not least, the 
recent international financial crisis certainly represents another source of 
operational risk: its occurrence evidenced several flaws in the organiza-
tion as, for example, internal controls that should have prevented fail-
ures in lending and securitization were not in place. Loan officers failed 
to identify healthy borrowing firms, rejecting their legitimate loan 
applications. At the same time, loan officers failed to detect borrowing 
firms that were heading towards bankruptcy and approved their ille-
gitimate loan applications. Such occasional miscalculations eventually 
turned into financial losses for the banks. Additionally, securitizations 
1
Introduction
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks, 
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_1
1

--- Página 12 ---
2        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
contributed to transmit the operational risk from one bank to another, 
creating a domino effect and a systemic risk. Consequently, the finan-
cial crisis further evidenced the importance of banks having an effec-
tive operational risk management that could ensure financial stability, at 
both individual and systemic levels.
The need to strengthen controls over operational risks highlights the 
initiatives of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision carried out 
between 2001 and 2006 (Basel 2), aimed at including operational risk 
in the international regulatory framework. Such initiatives covered a key 
role in setting a universal definition of operational risk: until then, oper-
ational risk had included any risk that did not fall within the category 
of market or credit risk, clustering residual and heterogeneous risks. The 
Basel 2 framework defines it as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. 
This definition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic and reputa-
tional risks.
The same sources of operational risk are identified in the current 
UE prudential regulation (Capital Requirements Regulation—CRR—
575/2013 and Capital Requirements Directive—CRD—36/2013). 
Hence, both provisions (Basel 3 and UE legislation) outline a clear 
causal definition of operational risk that inevitably involves a strict anal-
ysis of the processes, systems, people and external events, which repre-
sent the possible sources of operational losses.
Compared to other types of risk, operational risk presents some quite 
distinctive features. First of all it is generally a one-side risk; it tends not 
to be correlated with the expected return; it is transversal to the whole 
banking activity, is not easy to be transferred and/or hedged and is not 
correlated with the bank’s size and/or its volume of business. Moreover, 
while some losses are clearly the result of operational risk, for others it 
is less clear whether they should be classified as operational risk or other 
risk categories, thus raising the problem of boundary operational losses. 
Accordingly, the prudential regulation provides some details on the 
matter to prevent overestimates, double counting or improper reduc-
tions of capital requirements.
The definition of the boundary between operational risk and other 
risks (credit and market risks) has been identified by the industry as a

--- Página 13 ---
1  Introduction        3
fundamental issue towards the consistent collection and modelling of 
operational risk loss data. Likewise, the definition of operational risk 
boundaries that distinguish it from other types of risk such as strategic, 
reputational and compliance risks help avoid overlaps in risk manage-
ment caused by similarities among the types of risks.
While the complexity of the definition of operational risk and scope 
represents a crucial matter and is constantly the object of interest for the 
financial community, great attention is also given to the calculation of 
operational risk capital requirements. Particularly, the current regulatory 
framework (Basel 3 and UE CRR 285/2013) provides multiple meth-
ods for calculating operational risk own funds and aims to ensure cor-
respondence between the degree of refinement of the approach to the 
level of an intermediary’s risk exposure, to limit the burden of regula-
tion on smaller banks and to formally acknowledge at supervisory level 
the improvements adopted by banks in operational risk management 
practices. To this end, alternative approaches have been set out for cal-
culating operational risk capital requirements, each of which incorpo-
rates different levels of risk-sensitivity and requires distinct degrees of 
sophistication: the basic indicator approach, the standardized approach 
(and the alternative standardized approach) and the advanced measure-
ment approach.
In a continuously changing context, the implementation of oper-
ational risk standards is still being monitored by the supervisory 
authority. In particular, the Basel Committee has recently provided 
comprehensive guidance regarding the qualitative requirements that 
should be observed to achieve more rigorous and comprehensive oper-
ational risk management. The Basel Committee has also proposed a 
review of the operational risk capital framework. In order to address a 
number of weaknesses of the current framework and at the same time 
ensure the objective of balancing simplicity, comparability and risk 
sensitivity, the proposal aims to introduce a revised methodology, the 
standard methodology approach, which should replace the existing 
standardized approaches for calculating operational risk capital as well 
as the advanced approach, thereby simplifying significantly the regula-
tory framework.

--- Página 14 ---
4        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
In this evolving scenario, both at regulatory and operating level, the 
organizational, mitigation and measurement issues are more and more 
crucial. Banks therefore need to develop, implement and maintain a 
sound operational risk management framework. This hence requires 
that banks introduce and foster a strong operational risk management 
culture throughout the whole organization. Moreover, the implemen-
tation of a sound operational risk management entails the need for 
an in-depth analysis of multiple business processes and sub-processes, 
phases, and activities. Such need reflects the interdependence between 
the operational risk exposure and the structure of a bank’s governance 
and organization, which has been observed in several cases of financial 
collapses where losses mainly associated with internal fraud were spe-
cifically connected to supervisory and operational failure on behalf of 
the board of directors and senior management. On the other hand, the 
focus on organization arises in response to the need of combining meas-
urement systems with efficient and adequate control units for opera-
tional risk management.
In order to achieve a comprehensive approach to operational risk, 
banks should also have appropriate mitigation and transfer strategies. 
In reference to this aspect, it is important that banks understand the 
extent to which risk mitigation instruments (e.g. insurance policies) 
truly reduce the operational risk exposure, transfer the risk to another 
business sector of financial system or create new risks. Regulators recog-
nize risk transfer or insurance as a mitigation tool only for the advanced 
approach and the eligibility of the instruments is subject to specific 
requirements. Such opportunity has underlined in particular the strate-
gic importance of insurance portfolio management in banks. The devel-
opment of the use of insurance within the operational risk management 
may in fact contribute to the reduction of the capital charge and the 
economic impact linked to the operational losses. On the other side, 
there are a number of challenges, such as the difficulty in measuring the 
extent of insurance’s mitigating effect and the need to effectively match 
insurance products with operational losses (insurance mapping).
Lastly, a sound operational risk framework depends on the adequacy, 
completeness and accuracy of the data used for building the measure-
ment model. The degree of flexibility that banks have had in operational

--- Página 15 ---
1  Introduction        5
risk modelling has fostered the development over the years of a variety 
of methods. Currently, these may be linked to two categories, namely 
the loss distribution approach and the scenario-based approach. The 
former is derived from the actuarial science; it is a rather widespread 
practice but yet presents some methodological limitations. One, for 
example, is the assumption that the past is a reliable representation of 
the future, which may result both in under-representing the events that 
never occurred in recent memory and for which data is not available, 
and in over-representing the events that happened very frequently in 
the past and that have already been mitigated. In order to overcome the 
methodological limitations of the Loss Distribution Approach (LDA), the 
best practices tend to combine this approach with the Scenario-Based 
Approach (SBA), which sums the knowledge of experts who demon-
strate a deep understanding of the bank’s business, threats and vulner-
abilities and who make the operational risk calculation more responsive 
to the existing business processes and ensure that the bank is attend-
ing to its key operational risks. This way qualitative and quantitative 
approaches are combined to build loss distributions for individual and 
aggregate operational risk exposure, incorporating experts’ opinion of 
risk correlations and dependencies.
The great complexity connected with a proactive management of the 
operational risk may represent an obstacle to its development by smaller 
banks. There is no doubt that in the case of small financial institutions 
the operational risk takes on a secondary role compared to other risks, 
more closely associated with typical banking activity (e.g. credit risk). 
This can be mainly due to the low degree of diversification of the activi-
ties carried out by smaller banks, which decreases the operational risk 
exposure and consequently the need to employ human, financial and 
technological resources in sophisticated systems of operational risk man-
agement. Nevertheless, it is crucial to examine how small-sized banks 
manage their operational risk exposure in order to understand the most 
important gaps and shortcomings and hence identify the opportunities 
of improvement for helping to create a level playing field.
Although there are differences in the operational risk management 
depending on the size of the bank, it is possible to point out that the 
operational risk management is still generally at a stage of development,

--- Página 16 ---
6        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
and calls for a greater commitment and awareness for a proactive man-
agement. This may be supported also by the disclosure requirements 
(Pillar 3). The current regulatory framework requires banks to provide 
accurate and comprehensive disclosure of their operational risk profile; 
in particular, banks are asked to disclose the approaches for the assess-
ment of their own funds requirements.
The present book is divided into a total of eight chapters. The fol-
lowing chapter (Chap. 2) “The operational risk: an overall framework” 
describes the specific features of operational risk, as well as its origin and 
main sources. It also draws particular attention to the similarities and 
differences with other risks—credit, market, strategic, reputational and 
compliance risks.
The third chapter “The regulatory framework” analyses the main fea-
tures of all the approaches for calculating the capital requirement for 
operational risk, highlighting critical issues of each approach. Finally, it 
provides a short description of the most recent initiatives of the Basel 
Committee; noteworthy is the recent new standardized measurement 
approach for operational risk proposed by the committee, as part of the 
broader objective of balancing simplicity, comparability and risk sensi-
tivity.
The fourth chapter “Operational risk management: organizational 
and governance issues” examines the organizational and governance 
issues related to the measurement and control of operational risk, focus-
ing on the key functions involved (e.g. committee, operational risk 
functions), on the interrelationship between the operational risk func-
tion and other functions (internal audit and compliance), as well as on 
the role of reporting and IT.
The fifth chapter “Operational risk mitigation: strategies and tools” 
provides a description of the regulatory framework of the operational 
risk mitigation techniques, focusing particularly on insurance, the main 
operational issues of their use as operational risk mitigants, with an 
emphasis on the most relevant impacts on the banks’ operational risk 
management. Finally, it reviews the most widespread instruments avail-
able to banks, both traditional and innovative ones.
The sixth chapter “Operational risk modelling: focus on the loss dis-
tribution and scenario based approaches” aims at analysing the specific

--- Página 17 ---
1  Introduction        7
features of both the methodologies, highlighting strengths and weak-
nesses of each. As it is not possible to state which approach is the best in 
absolute terms, according to the best practices, the combined use could 
be the preferable choice.
The seventh chapter “Operational risk: evidence from Italian 
cooperative banks” reports the results of a survey on a sample of 
Italian cooperative banks. The survey explores different research areas: 
organizational aspects, measurement methods, Second Pillar, insurance 
coverage, and trade associations/outsourcing.
The eighth (and the last) chapter “Disclosure on OR: evidence from 
a sample of Italian banks”  illustrates the degree of disclosure of the 
operational risk management; in particular, it reports the evidence of 
a survey on a sample of listed banks in Italy, focused on the following 
areas of investigation: general aspects, organizational structure, 
measurement systems, control, mitigation and transfer systems, and 
capital.

--- Página 18 ---
2.1	
Introduction
Since the 90s, several factors (e.g., the growing size of the banks, the 
massive technological investments, the development of e-commerce and 
e-banking, the outsourcing of production processes) induced to revise 
operational risk management tools and to reflect on the introduction of 
specific regulatory requirements. Further attention towards operational 
risks was brought about by the awareness of the catastrophic nature that 
operational risk can lead to, in some cases, even compromising the sur-
vival of the financial intermediary.
In this chapter we focus on the specific features of the operational 
risk, as well as its origin and main sources. Particular attention is also 
given to the similarities and differences with other risks, namely credit, 
market, strategic, reputational and compliance risk.
2
The Operational Risk: An Overall 
Framework
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks,  
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_2
9

--- Página 19 ---
10        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
2.2	
Definition and Classification of Operational 
Risk
In recent years the supervisory authorities have recognized operational 
risk (OR)  as a relevant phenomenon transversally pervading the entire 
banking industry. For years the existence of many operational risks 
(ORs) has often become apparent only after the high losses of many 
banking crises and has often taken the guise of a different type of risk 
exposure (e.g., credit or market risk), which was consequently addressed 
inappropriately, underestimated or not addressed altogether.
Although operational risk is innate to banking itself, over the years 
the phenomenon has been mitigated by pursuing a typical ex-post 
approach and has only recently been identified by a formal definition 
(see below). Starting from the 90s a number of factors induced to revise 
OR management tools and to reflect on the introduction of specific reg-
ulatory requirements. These factors are well-known (Ellis et al. 2012); 
among these, the most important are as follows:
•	 the growing size of the banks, accompanied by an increasingly com-
plex organization, by the emergence of new business models (e.g., 
investment services, multi-channel distribution) and—in the pres-
ence of Merger & Acquisition (M&A) operations—by possible dis-
tortions in integrating the operational and information systems of 
the companies involved in the process of aggregation;
•	 the massive technological investments made by banks, in which vari-
ous types of OR were concealed (human errors and system faults);
•	 the development of e-commerce and e-banking, exposed to external 
frauds, problems of security and cybercrime;
•	 outsourcing of production processes, which arouses uncertainties in 
the sharing of responsibilities;
•	 the widespread use of credit and market risk mitigation instruments, 
such as derivatives and securitization, followed by the increased 
presence of specific ORs (Carosio 2001). In this respect, evidence 
has also resulted from the crisis of the US subprime mortgages: the 
analysis of 86 cases reported in the FIRST (Facts on International

--- Página 20 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        11
Relations and Security Trends) database concerning the operational 
loss events has shown that the underlying causes of many of the 
events connected with the crisis are inadequate controls, as well as 
improper management behaviour and dysfunctions in the remunera-
tion systems (Cagan 2008).
Further attention towards OR has derived from the awareness of the 
catastrophic nature that OR can lead to, eventually compromising the 
very survival of the financial intermediary. Indeed, in the past decades, 
operational failures have produced dramatic results, in some cases even 
leading to collapse (Fontnouvelle et al. 2003; Aparicio and Keskiner 
2004; Rachev et al. 2006). In the same period, financial institutions 
have experienced over 100 operational loss events, each exceeding 100 
million dollars (Fontnouvelle et al. 2003). The history of sensational 
financial failures has unveiled a number of contributing factors: dishon-
est employee behaviour, improper business practices, malfunctioning in 
the internal control systems, lack of transparency in carrying out invest-
ment services, distorted reward systems, unclear reporting lines. These 
factors have stressed the need to strengthen controls over OR, especially 
in the financial area, as well as the need to use indicators for monitoring 
the trends of risk exposure. Some authors have suggested the usefulness 
of gathering these indicators (including the number of daily negotia-
tions for each trader and the share of remuneration based on bonus 
mechanisms) in a scorecard approach for capital allocation for ORs and 
pricing decisions in financial institutions (Sundmacher and Ford 2004).
One emblematic case of OR dates back to 1995, when the reck-
less and unauthorized financial activities implemented by the trader 
Nicholas Leeson led to the collapse of Barings Bank (Queen Elizabeth’s 
personal bank), causing $1.3 billion losses. Following the unauthor-
ized derivative transactions in the Asian markets, started in 1992, the 
first losses were recorded on a secret account, numbered 88888, until 
Nickolas Leeson—alias, the “rogue trader” (from the title of his auto-
biography, see Leeson 1997)—started to gamble on market stabil-
ity on January 16, 1995. The following day Asia was hit by a violent 
earthquake that caused the collapse of the market, forcing Leeson into 
increasingly risky recovery efforts, which made losses soar.

--- Página 21 ---
12        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Yet, only a few years from that event, the “lesson” from Barings Bank 
seemed to have been completely forgotten: in February 2002 the reck-
less operations in the exchange market conducted by Allfirst (a US sub-
sidiary of the Allied Irish Bank) employee, John Rusnak, were followed 
by fake hedging contracts to hide losses—estimated at $691 million—
proving once again the threat represented by rogue trading.
Again, in January 2008 trader Jerome Kerviel caused a $7.1 bil-
lion loss to Societe Generale, because of unauthorized European Index 
Future trades. Kerviel’s losses came from bets made on “plain vanilla 
products”, relatively simple futures tied to major European stock 
indexes. In that same year, trader Evan Brent Dooley of MF Global 
conducted unauthorized futures transactions resulting in a loss of $141 
million.
It is apparent that the financial services industry has a perennially 
short memory. Indeed, in 2011, shortly after the Societe Generale trad-
ing scandal, UBS reported a similar scenario. Again, another trader, 
Kweku Adoboli, escaped the firm’s risk management radar, losing $2.3 
billion on fraudulent exchange-traded funds (ETFs) transactions. 
Kweku Adoboli set up a secret account nicknamed “umbrella” to hide 
losses, which exploded after his ever-bigger trades went sour. He also 
booked fake trades to offset the risk exposure he had created (Poster and 
Southworth 2012).
Many other trading scandals had involved well-known financial insti-
tutions—even before the collapse of Barings Bank—as a result of seri-
ous lapses in operational risk control. Among these, the most worth 
recalling are as follows:
•	 the securities fraud by Michael Milken, known as the “junk bond 
king”, brought the Drexel Burnham Lambert into bankruptcy, which 
was fined $650 million (November 1989);
•	 the $1.1 billion loss by the Daiwa Bank suffered as a result of unau-
thorized trading of bonds by one of its US managers, Toshihide 
Iguchi (September 1995);
•	 unauthorized trading in the copper market by Yasuo Hamakana, 
member of a team that controlled 5% of the world’s copper trading

--- Página 22 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        13
(and for this reason called “Mister 5%”), which caused losses for $2.6 
billion to the Japanese trading company Sumitomo (June 1996);
•	 at Griffin Trading company (no longer in existence), Scott Szach, 
chief financial officer of the company, diverted over $5.6 billion from 
one of the company’s bank accounts in favour of a brokerage account 
in the 18 months prior to the sale of the company (January 2001);
•	 the $277 million loss to the National Australia Bank, caused by 
unauthorized currency options on behalf of two traders: Vince 
Ficarra and David Bullen (January 2004).
The difficulty to uncover such violations in a timely manner can 
require a proactive management based on the application of modern 
basic criminological assumptions, aimed at analysing the multi-causal 
cause-effect relationship in the underlying risk origination process (Rick 
and van den Brink 2015). Besides, the history of rogue-trading scandals 
shows that effective trading surveillance cannot be achieved without 
sustained, regular dialogue between risk managers, traders and manage-
ment: the majority of trading debacles were attributable to serious lapses 
in operational risk control.
Lastly, among the banking scandals we shall also recall the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) scandals, in which unscrupulous 
traders and managers from some of the largest banks worldwide (e.g., 
Barclays, UBS, and Royal Bank of Scotland) deliberately and systemati-
cally manipulated borrowing rates. Such conduct—far from being the 
work of isolated “rogue traders”—had become part of business-as-usual in 
the international money markets (McConnell 2013). Brokers involved in 
the LIBOR manipulation scandals covered a key role in illicit activities by 
assisting banks to manipulate the LIBOR benchmark (McConnell 2014).
Over the years, with the uncovering of the first scandals, OR began 
to gain increasing attention, triggering a debate around its inclusion 
in the capital requirements framework (Locatelli 2004). In particular, 
the issue of operational risk capital requirement was much criticized. 
Considering that banks typically hold cash funds beyond the required 
capital to absorb future losses, imposing the capital charge for opera-
tional risk could have been counter-productive if this had not been

--- Página 23 ---
14        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
accompanied by an increased incentive to banks to manage and mitigate 
operational risk. Moreover, at the time there was no clear evidence that 
the capital charge, computed under Basel 2, could have provided banks 
with those incentives necessary to reduce their exposure to operational 
risk (Belhaj 2010).
Discussions on operational risk management had been formerly 
raised by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) in 
1998, which led to its inclusion in the international regulatory frame-
work developed between 2001 and 2006. Prior to Basel 2, the term 
“operational risk” had suffered the lack of a univocal and shared defini-
tion, considered (compared to credit and market risks) as an accumula-
tion of residual risks and thus a “cluster” of risks featuring heterogeneity 
in terms of causing event, severity of loss, likelihood of occurrence and 
type of impact (effective loss, missed opportunity for gains, write-downs 
of assets, penalties paid to supervisors, and so on). In fact, BCBS (1998) 
openly agreed there was no universal definition of operational risk: “At 
present, there is no agreed upon universal definition of operational risk. 
Many banks have defined operational risk as any risk not categorised 
as market or credit risk”, while a “positive” definition of the expression 
that describes what OR is, can be found in Basel 2  (BCBS 2004) and, 
originally, in the documents of the Basel Committee of 2001 (BCBS 
2001a, b). As stated: “Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss 
resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and sys-
tems or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, but 
excludes strategic and reputational risk”.
Similarly, the same factors responsible for OR are identified in 
the Capital Requirements Regulation, CRR (Regulation (EU) No 
575/2013). Point (52) of Article 4(1) of CRR—mentioned in point 
(48) of Article 3(1) of the Capital Requirements Directive, CRD 
(Directive 2013/36/EU) defines “operational risk” as the risk of loss 
resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and sys-
tems or from external events, and includes legal risk. Differently from 
BCBS (2004), the scope of OR oversees strategic and reputational 
risks; however, in spite of such differences in the texts, the definition of 
operational risk within the CRD/CRR must be read consistently with

--- Página 24 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        15
that of the Basel Accord: reputational and strategic risks should be 
excluded from the scope of operational risk (CEBS 2010). Moreover, 
the definition within the CRD/CRR addresses legal risk, model risk and 
financial transactions for AMA (Advanced Measurement Approaches) 
institutions (EBA 2015). Model risk is the risk resulting from improper 
definition of models used for decision-making, errors in the implemen-
tation of these models, their use for purposes beyond those for which 
they were designed, or inappropriate ongoing monitoring of their per-
formance to verify that they remain suitable for their purposes (EBA 
2015, Article 5). Financial transactions and legal risk will be discussed 
in Sects. 2.3.2 and 2.3.5, respectively.
The causal definition of OR involves a careful analysis of the pro-
cesses, systems, people and external events (Sironi 2003; Brighi 2003), 
which are the causes from which an OR loss may arise.
In detail, the factors related to processes include events concern-
ing transaction risk (accounting errors, recording errors, and errors 
linked to the documentation of transactions), security risk (violation 
of information security due to a poor system of internal controls) and 
settlement errors (errors in the regulation of transactions linked to secu-
rities and currencies with resident and non-resident counterparties). 
Additional elements include insufficient formalization of internal pro-
cedures and errors in the definition and allocation of roles and responsi-
bilities.
Instead, the factors related to systems include malfunctions and 
errors in the information system, programming errors in the applica-
tions, interruptions and corruptions in the network structure, and fail-
ure in telecommunication systems. M&A operations and outsourcing of 
the data processing activity typically cause this type of risk.
As for factors relating to people (Capgemini 2013), we can certainly 
include errors due to incompetence, negligence or lack of experience, 
mobbing, fraud, collusion and other criminal activities, violation of 
laws, regulations, codes of conduct and ethical standards.
Finally, the external events can be traced back to failures or criminal 
activities of external subjects (thefts, acts of terrorism and vandalism), to 
political and military events and to natural disasters (earthquakes, fires, 
floods and so on).

--- Página 25 ---
16        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Alongside the above-mentioned definitions of causes/factors, the 
CRR also provides a classification of events responsible for the losses, 
leading to seven classes of event types. In particular, this classification 
of loss event types takes the following categories into account (Article 
324):
1.	Internal Fraud: losses due to acts aimed to defraud, misappropri-
ate property or circumvent regulations, the law or company policy, 
excluding diversity/discrimination events, which involve at least one 
internal party;
2.	External Fraud: losses due to acts intended to defraud, misappropri-
ate property or circumvent the law, by a third party;
3.	Employment Practices and Workplace Safety: losses arising from acts 
inconsistent with employment, health or safety laws or agreements, 
or from payment of personal injury claims, or from diversity/discrim-
ination events;
4.	Clients, Products and Business Practices: losses arising from an 
unintentional or negligent failure to meet a professional obligation 
towards specific clients (including fiduciary and suitability require-
ments), or from the nature or design of a product;
5.	Damage to Physical Assets: losses arising from loss or damage to 
physical assets from natural disaster or other events;
6.	Business Disruption and System Failures: losses arising from disrup-
tion of business or system failures;
7.	Execution, Delivery and Process Management: losses from failed 
transaction processing or process management, from relations with 
trade counterparties and vendors.
Examples of operational losses for each category of loss event type are 
listed in Table 2.1 (Prokopenko and Bondarenko 2012).
The frequency and severity of ORs and their classification into cat-
egories have received much attention throughout a number of stud-
ies. In particular, a study conducted by the Institute of Operational 
Risk ranked the top seven ORs for 2013 (Institute of Operational Risk 
2013). Namely, the top ORs identified are as follows:

--- Página 26 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        17
Table 2.1  Operational losses: cause categories and activity examples (Prokopenko 
and Bondarenko 2012)
Internal fraud
• Unauthorized activity (transactions intention-
ally not reported; transaction type unauthor-
ized without monetary loss), intentional 
mismarking of position
• Theft and fraud (credit fraud/worthless depos-
its; extortion/robbery/embezzlement; misap-
propriation/malicious destruction of assets; 
forgery, check kiting, account take-over; tax 
non-compliance/evasion; bribes/kickbacks 
insider trading—not on firm’s account)
External fraud
• Theft and fraud (theft, robbery, forgery, 
check kiting)
• Systems security (hacking damage, theft of 
information without monetary loss)
Employment practices and 
workplace safety
• Employee relations (compensation, benefit, 
termination issues; organized labour activity)
• Safe environment (general liability; employee 
health and safety rules events)
• Diversity and discrimination (all  
discrimination types)
Clients, products and business 
practices
• Suitability, disclosure and fiduciary (fiduciary 
breaches/guideline violations; suitability/dis-
closure (know your customer and know your 
customer’s customers); retail customer disclo-
sure violations, breach of privacy, aggressive 
sales; account churning, misuse of confidential 
information)
• Improper business/market practices (antitrust; 
improper trade/market practices)
• Product flaws (product defects; model errors)
• Selection, sponsorship and exposure (failure to 
investigate client; exceeding client exposure 
limits)
• Advisory activities (disputes over their perfor-
mance)
Damage to physical assets
• Disasters and other events (natural disaster 
losses; human losses from external sources—­
terrorism, vandalism)
Business disruption and sys-
tem failures
• Hardware; software
• Telecommunications; utility outage/ 
disruptions
(continued)

--- Página 27 ---
18        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
1.	Regulatory Change: arises from the split of the Financial Services 
Authority into different entities (the Financial Policy Committee, 
the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct 
Authority), an event which increased issues and concerns of many 
risk professionals about the exact perimeter of authority and what 
lies within the province of each of these entities. This in turn 
may increase risks of non-compliance for supervised entities.
2.	Systemic Operational Risk: includes operational events affecting a 
large number of institutions. Examples are the LIBOR scandals, pay-
ment protection insurance mis-selling and large IT breakdowns.
3.	Internal Model Complexity: a relevant risk in the financial sector, 
which still requires future effort in order to combine simplicity and 
reliability in modelling risk.
Table 2.1  (continued)
Execution, delivery and pro-
cess management
• Transaction capture, execution and main-
tenance (miscommunication, data entry/
maintenance/loading error; misused deadline/
responsibility; model/system mis-operation; 
accounting/entity attribution error; other task 
mis-performance; delivery failure; collateral 
management failure; reference data mainte-
nance)
• Monitoring and reporting (failed mandatory 
reporting obligation; inaccurate external 
report)
• Customer intake and documentation (client 
permissions/disclaimers missing; legal docu-
mentation missing/incomplete)
• Client account management (unapproved 
access provided to accounts; incorrect client 
records (loss incurred); negligent loss or dam-
age of client assets)
• Trade counterparties (non-client counterparty 
mis-performance; non-client counterparty 
disputes)
• Vendors and suppliers (outsourcing; vendor 
disputes)

--- Página 28 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        19
4.	Incentives Misalignment: staff compensation management may have 
devastating effects if this is not aligned to risk management impera-
tives.
5.	Change: shifts in strategies, policies and conducts may draw the 
attention away from risks, that therefore may remain unnoticed in 
the noise of novelty.
6.	IT and Data Integrity: IT security and data protection have become 
significant in the last few years, especially owing to the widespread 
use of smart phones and social media.
7.	Cost Pressure: the financial crisis and its related economic tur-
moil have resulted in a reduction in staff and systems. These cuts, in 
turn, overworked employees and systems, thus increasing risk factors.
The financial crisis started during 2007–2008 has highlighted several 
aspects of operational risk management. Firstly, although the crisis has 
caused its most significant impact along one business line (namely, trad-
ing and sales), it has affected the retail brokerage as well (Hess 2011). 
This was confirmed by Cope and Carrivick (2013), who further under-
lined that the impact of the crisis was circumscribed to only a few lines 
of business, loss categories and types of banks, in terms of both loss fre-
quency and severity. Secondly, the banks’ largest losses have not been 
firm-specific, but have involved multiple banks, since the same types of 
misconduct are being fined at the same time by multiple regulators, giv-
ing origin to what was later coined as “systemic operational risk events”: 
operational risk events that affect the industry as a whole (McConnell 
and Blacker 2013; McConnell 2015). Finally, operational risks have 
shown to be related to the typical lending policies of banks. Loan offic-
ers have failed to distinguish healthy borrowing firms and have rejected 
their legitimate loan applications. Furthermore, loan officers have failed 
to identify borrowing firms that eventually would have gone bankrupt 
and wrongly approved their illegitimate loan applications. These occa-
sional miscalculations obviously have transformed into financial losses 
to the lending institutions (Parnes 2012).
Compared to other types of risk (see the sections below), OR pre-
sents several clear distinctive elements. These include the following:

--- Página 29 ---
20        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 the nature of OR as pure risk or “one-side risk”, with the exception 
of a few isolated cases of income opportunities (deriving, for exam-
ple, from changes in the regulatory and fiscal environment);
•	 the lack of a correlation between risk and expected return for OR, 
except for some sporadic cases like the one in which a greater risk is 
associated with cost savings in terms of lower investments in proce-
dures and in internal controls;
•	 its presence across production and support activities, originating the 
need to create awareness and training across multiple business lines: 
many operational risks are not localized in defined processes, activi-
ties and products, but are transversal to many activities carried out by 
financial institutions and can concern all the products offered (fraud, 
aggressive sale, and so on);
•	 the difficulties in pricing and the transfer/hedging actions;
•	 no clear correlation between OR, on the one hand, and size of the 
company and the volume of transactions on the other;
•	 the interdisciplinary approach required for OR modelling, involv-
ing multiple key functions (i.e., Internal Audit, Risk Management, 
Organization, Accounting, Planning and Management Control, 
Information Technology). In fact, market and credit risk are managed 
where they originated (market risk in the Treasury or in the Finance 
Department, the credit risk in the Credit Department), whereas the 
OR is run by many functions. Hence, in order to prevent the same 
problem from being addressed in different ways or with inconsistent 
timing for the different functions involved, it is necessary to establish 
a strong coordination among the different structures and a prompt 
sharing of the information available;
•	 calculation procedures of the capital at risk. The capital require-
ments for OR, calculated on a consolidated basis and allocated to 
companies, do not derive from the sum of capitals calculated at an 
individual level. This implies the need to define adequate alloca-
tion mechanisms that are shared by the companies, reflecting the 
risk exposure of these companies, and enabling and encouraging 
an active management of the operational risks so as to reduce risk 
exposure.

--- Página 30 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        21
2.3	
Main Similarities and Differences Between 
OR and Other Risk Categories
One of the main features of operational risk is represented by the pres-
ence of OR causal factors “behind” many of the losses that might be 
assigned to other types of risk, thus raising the problem of boundary 
operational losses. Accordingly, the prudential regulation provides 
some details on the matter to prevent overestimates, double counting 
or improper reductions of capital requirements. The definition of the 
boundary between operational risk and other risks has been identified 
by the industry as a fundamental issue in the consistent collection and 
modelling of operational risk loss data. The sections below will treat the 
similarities and differences between OR and credit risk, market risk, 
strategic risk, reputational risk and compliance risk.
2.3.1	 Operational Risk Versus Credit Risk
By the term “cross-credit” cases we refer to those events that have an 
operational cause but feature an economic impact that is stored in the 
database for the capital requirements for credit risk. Likewise, by the 
term “credit risk boundary losses” we refer to the losses on loans origi-
nated by OR events, such as the losses deriving from errors or frauds in 
the process of credit granting and management.
The wealth of information collected on “cross-credit” cases makes 
it difficult to define an adequate flow of information, and requires the 
involvement of (i) the structures responsible for monitoring the expo-
sure to credit risk and its quantification, and (ii) the structures respon-
sible for controlling and managing the operational risks, so that the 
parties involved can analyse the risky situations, and define any neces-
sary mitigation actions. It also requires the identification of the most 
appropriate structures for reporting significant events, the clear allo-
cation of responsibilities, as well as the definition of the timing and 
reporting procedures. Accordingly, the best solution may be to involve 
the centralized structure rather than the decentralized ones, consistently

--- Página 31 ---
22        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
with powers held to the former in the control over credit risk exposure 
and in the recovery of problematic exposures.
The following are some non-exhaustive examples of cross-cases 
between operational risk and credit risk (Bazzarello and De Mori 2009):
•	 Internal Fraud: voluntary alteration of the data presented towards the 
assessment of creditworthiness (for example, changing the parameters 
used for evaluation, such as personal data or estimates of the guar-
antees, and lack of consideration of prejudicial events related to the 
applicant for credit); fraudulently granting loans to fictitious custom-
ers; wrongful acquisition/redemption of guarantees; identity fraud;
•	 External Fraud: presentation of false personal data or of false data rel-
ative to one’s financial condition upon credit application; falsification 
of external appraiser valuations regarding the guarantees; presentation 
of bills/invoices for collection concerning fictitious or already extinct 
credits;
•	 Clients, Products and Business Practices: involuntary or negligent 
management of the credit lines in a manner which is non-compliant 
with internal rules and/or relevant regulations;
•	 Execution, Delivery and Process Management: failure to recover the 
credit due to the loss of supporting acts/documents; delay in the exe-
cution of credit recovery processes; negligence in assessing customer 
creditworthiness; negligence in monitoring the credit exposures of 
the bank and the connected recovery actions; incomplete or incor-
rect management of contract updating; negligence in the acquisition, 
management and conservation of guarantees (e.g., weaknesses in the 
management of guarantees due to errors in the preparation of the rel-
evant documentation: invalid clauses, ambiguous terms, and so on).
Currently, for AMA institutions, the operational risk losses that are 
related to credit risk and that the institutions have historically included 
in the internal credit risk databases must be recorded in the operational 
risk databases and identified separately. Such losses are not subject to 
operational risk charge, provided that the institutions continue to 
treat them as credit risk for the purpose of calculating their own funds

--- Página 32 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        23
requirements (CRR, point (b) of Article 322(3), see Chap. 3). In par-
ticular, EBA (2015) makes specific reference to two operational risk 
losses related to credit risk: “first-party” and “third-party” fraud (Article 
30(1)). The first-party fraud occurs at the initial stage of the lifecycle of 
a credit relationship in relation to a credit product or credit process and 
is committed by a client using its own personal account (e.g., induce-
ment to lending decisions based on counterfeit documents or miss-
stated financial statements, such as non-existence or over-estimation 
of collaterals and counterfeit salary confirmation). Instead, third-party 
fraud, which always occurs in a credit product or credit process, is com-
mitted by a third party who acts illicitly using the credentials of another 
(unaware) person (e.g., electronic identity fraud—phishing—and use of 
clients’ data or of fictitious identities in the case of loan applications; 
fraudulent third-party use of clients’ credit cards).
2.3.2	 Operational Risk Versus Market Risk
By the term “cross-market” cases, we refer to cases that are generated by 
operational events (e.g., purchase/sale of the wrong amount of financial 
instruments), but which are uncovered by the controls on market risk. 
Some non-exhaustive examples of cross-cases between operational risk 
and market risk are as follows:
•	 Internal Fraud: voluntary closing of operations by traders at non-
market prices/parameters;
•	 Business Disruption and System Failures: partial or total unavailabil-
ity of market access systems, preventing the execution or correct per-
formance of operations;
•	 Execution, Delivery and Process Management: errors during the exe-
cution of the orders (e.g., purchase/sale of the wrong security; execu-
tion of purchase rather than sales orders, and vice versa; processing 
of orders with errors in the amount of financial instruments or cur-
rency by which they are expressed); closing positions due to errors in 
the evaluation process (failure to update the price or other relevant 
parameters).

--- Página 33 ---
24        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
In 2010 CEBS dealt with the issue “Operational risk versus market 
risk”, defining some criteria of discrimination between the two risks 
(CEBS 2010). Accordingly, the scope of OR should include:
•	 Events due to operational errors (e.g., errors in the input or execution 
of orders, errors in classification due to the software used by the front 
and middle office, technical unavailability of access to the market).
•	 Events caused by failures in the internal control system (failures in 
properly operating a stop loss, unauthorized positions exceeding the 
allocated limits, and so on).
•	 Events depending on an incorrect selection of the models outside 
well-defined processes and formalized procedures (e.g., selection of a 
model without verifying its suitability for the financial instrument to 
be evaluated and for the current market conditions).
•	 Events resulting from incorrect implementation of the models (e.g., 
errors in in-house IT implementation of a selected model).
In all the above-mentioned cases, the loss should be included within 
the “scope of operational risk loss”, unless the position is intentionally 
kept open once the OR event is recognized. In this latter case, any por-
tion of the loss due to adverse market conditions occurring after the 
decision of keeping the position open should be ascribed to market risk.
Conversely, the scope of OR should exclude those events caused by 
the incorrect choice of a model, if such choice is made through a for-
malized corporate process in which the pros and cons of the model are 
carefully examined.
For AMA institutions in particular, EBA (2015) disciplines the 
“Operational risk events related to financial transactions including those 
related to market risk” (Article 6). The types of risks reported in the 
CEBS (2010), as listed above, basically follow the dispositions con-
tained in Article 6 of EBA where, however, the model risk is not 
mentioned. The model risk is instead disciplined by Article 5 of EBA 
(2015): “Operational risk events related to model risk”. This article also 
mentions regulatory approved internal models: events related to the 
under-estimation of capital requirements by these models are excluded 
from the “scope of operational risk”.

--- Página 34 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        25
AMA institutions are also required to include operational risk losses 
that are related to market risks within the scope of the own funds 
requirement for operational risk (CRR, point (b) of Article 322(3); see 
Chap. 3).
2.3.3	 Operational Risk Versus Strategic Risk
In order to avoid misalignment in the banking system and penalties 
arising from differences in the calculation of capital requirements for 
OR among financial institutions, there must also be a clear and shared 
definition of the events and the impacts that need to be handled as 
operational risks and those to be handled as strategic risks. Moreover, a 
thorough comprehension of the differences between strategic and opera-
tional risk management is key to allow employees within an organiza-
tion to address risk issues and safeguard organizations from damage.
The current approach tends to consider as losses from operational 
risk those losses generated by legal settlements or by a voluntary deci-
sion on behalf of an institution wanting to prevent any future legal risk. 
The scope of operational risk also includes events deriving from inter-
nal inadequacies, errors and external events that occur when a project 
is undertaken. On the other hand, losses due to strategic risks are those 
resulting from incorrect or inappropriate strategic decisions not involv-
ing breach in rules, regulations or ethical conduct, and which are not 
triggered by legal risk (CEBS 2010).
As described by the CEBS, the scope of operational risk extends to 
the following non-exhaustive examples (CEBS 2010):
•	 Aggressive selling, resulting from individual initiatives or from the 
company’s need to reach specific objectives, with consequential 
breaching of regulations, internal rules or ethical conduct;
•	 Interpretations of the regulations that are contrary to industry practice;
•	 Refunds to customers as a consequence of operational risk events, 
before the customers make a complaint but, for example, after the 
institution has already been required to refund other customers for 
the same event;

--- Página 35 ---
26        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 Tax-related failures resulting in a loss (e.g., penalties, interests on arrears).
In contrast, the following are beyond the scope of operational risk:
•	 Incorrect decisions of M&A and of organizational-management 
review;
•	 Decisions incompatible with the level of tolerance to risk established 
by the company, when these decisions do not breach rules, regula-
tions or ethical conduct;
•	 Refunds to customers by the company’s own initiative, where no 
breach of rules, regulations or ethical conduct has occurred.
Furthermore, because some strategic issues may affect an organiza-
tion as a whole—rather than one or more of its parts—and increase the 
institution’s risk exposure, strategic risks are managed at board level, 
whereas operational risk affects the day-to-day running of operations 
and therefore is managed mainly at risk management level.
2.3.4	 Operational Risk Versus Reputational Risk
Unlike the above-mentioned cases, for which the supervisory authori-
ties have provided documentation and descriptions, there are no offi-
cial references for OR in relation to reputational risk. The connections 
between the two types of risk are, however, numerous.
Indeed, operational events primarily linked to the customer relation-
ships and to breaches in regulation in many cases involve a reputational 
damage for the bank, especially if it receives significant relevance by 
the media. For example, the unavailability of IT systems can generate 
relevant reputational damage also in the case of  negligible operational 
events. Consider for example the case of a malfunction impeding some 
clients to perform online trading and the consequent amplified diffu-
sion of the piece of news across the media triggered by complaints by 
the customers involved. The bank’s reputation is irreparably damaged.
There are some OR types that occur frequently but have a low 
impact, and which could be largely underestimated during the

--- Página 36 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        27
development of mitigation strategies if they were to be considered 
apart from their reputational component. The case of Automated Teller 
Machine (ATM) is a suiting example: although the frequent malfunc-
tions may not involve significant operating losses, these events may 
greatly affect the bank’s ability to develop new business opportunities 
with its own customers or attract new ones. Another example is the dif-
fusion among banks’ customers of remote interaction which has offered 
the banking industry a great opportunity for developing new commer-
cial channels. Despite its potential, this tool entails the risk of betray-
ing the clients’ trust if their information is not properly safeguarded: in 
fact, nowadays the IT Risk Manager’s task is not limited to monitoring 
the risk associated with the availability of data, but extends to issues of 
integrity and confidentiality of the data, closely related to cyber risk.
Therefore, OR and reputational risk may become strongly interre-
lated. Indeed, several cases of reputational damage that have occurred 
in the financial system evidence how OR can trigger the reputational 
event. This was the case with the scandal mentioned above, involving 
Societe Generale in 2008: in addition to the loss of $7.1 billion and the 
decline of the security on the stock exchange, it was further hit by the 
diffusion of the news across the media. Similarly, in 2004 LTSB was 
fined for having inappropriately sold financial products to its retail cli-
ents, thus undergoing significant damage to its image (Bazzarello and 
De Mori 2009).
Hence, integrating operational risk exposure assessments with quan-
titative and qualitative assessments for reputational risk is pivotal. It 
is also important that the possible quantification of reputational risk 
avoids the double inclusion of losses in the calculation of total capital 
requirements of the financial institution.
In consideration of these interrelations, it would also be advisable 
for banks to adopt risk mitigation strategies aimed at containing expo-
sure to both operational and reputational risks. Such strategies should 
consider multiple approaches, from process revision for improving the 
internal control system, to investments in information technology, to 
the implementation of a “risk” and “compliance”  awareness culture, 
and limitation of business activities related to excessively risky prod-
ucts/markets with respect to risk appetite for OR and reputational risk.

--- Página 37 ---
28        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Finally, these must be supported by a sound communication strategy, 
which in some cases can be more effective than risk prevention and 
management alone. In the event of the bank’s risk exposure due to 
fraud and improper placement of financial instruments to customers, 
timely communication stating the events occurred and addressing the 
bank’s foreseen plan of action is fundamental in managing the economic 
impact linked to both the OR and to the reputational effects in terms of 
lost revenues (Bazzarello and De Mori 2009).
2.3.5	 Operational Risk Versus Compliance Risk
As stated in Sect. 2.2, the CRD (Directive 2013/36/EU) explicitly 
includes legal risk in the definition of operational risk, following the 
Basel 2 Accord closely. Legal risk embraces all types of events causing 
losses or other expenses, which are triggered by a breach of rules result-
ing in legal proceedings or in other voluntary actions on behalf of the 
institution undertaken to avoid future legal risks. Misconduct events 
are explicitly included in the list of legal risk cases. EBA (2015), Article 
4, provides details on the definition of risk, explaining the meaning of 
“breach of rules”, “rules”, “legal proceedings”, “other voluntary actions”, 
and “other expenses”.
CEBS (2010) interprets the definition of OR contained in the 
Directive by including in OR any type of legal event triggered by opera-
tional risk, regardless of how it is labelled (e.g., compliance risk, envi-
ronmental risk). Likewise, EBA considers compliance risk as falling 
within OR. To a certain extent, the definition of legal risk overlaps with 
that of compliance risk provided by EBA (2011): “Compliance risk 
(being defined as the current or prospective risk to earnings and capital 
arising from violations or non-compliance with laws, rules, regulations, 
agreements, prescribed practices or ethical standards) can lead to fines, 
damages and/or the voiding of contracts and can diminish an institu-
tion’s reputation.” However, in the Single Rulebook Q&A (Question 
ID: 2014_1153) EBA addresses the issue of whether the definition of 
operational risk includes compliance risk, i.e., risk arising from an insti-
tution’s non-compliance with its legal or statutory responsibilities or

--- Página 38 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        29
requirements. EBA highlights that this risk must be included in the 
definition of operational risk found in Article 4(1)(52) of Regulation 
(EU) No. 575/2013 (CRR): it is one of the many different categories of 
operational risk. Compliance risk is due to a failure—either conscious 
or unconscious—to implement the requirements of laws, rules, regu-
lations, agreements, prescribed practices or ethical standards, while its 
effects may be a regulatory penalty or fine. EBA provides some examples 
of event classification:
•	 Internal Fraud: lack of formal rules and/or failure to comply with 
rules on personal transactions;
•	 Employment Practices and Workplace Safety: unsuitable policies for 
variable compensation;
•	 Clients, Product and Business Processes: lack of formal rules and/or 
failure to comply with rules governing clients, products or business 
practices;
•	 Execution, Delivery and Process Management: non-compliance with 
regulations and internal rules on Anti-Money Laundering.
However, the Basel Committee draws a distinction between opera-
tional risk (BCBS 2004) and compliance risk (BCBS 2005). On the 
one hand, OR is “the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This 
definition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic and reputational 
risk”. Moreover, legal risk includes, but is not limited to, exposure to 
fines, penalties, or punitive damages resulting from supervisory actions, 
as well as private settlements. On the other hand, compliance risk is 
defined as the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial 
loss, or loss to reputation that a bank may suffer as a result of its failure 
to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organiza-
tion standards, and codes of conduct applicable to its banking activities 
(“compliance laws, rules and standards”).
The definitions reported above (BCBS 2004, 2005) present clear dif-
ferences between the two risks both in terms of the events and conse-
quences, and some triggering events are easily attributed to one type of 
risk or the other (e.g., damage caused by natural disasters, vandalism,

--- Página 39 ---
30        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
external frauds and other external events is clearly attributable only to 
the OR). A further distinction that clearly emerges from a compari-
son of the definitions is referred to the effects. Unlike compliance risk, 
quantification of the OR does not need to capture the impact on repu-
tation: indeed, in the definition of OR the exclusion of reputational risk 
is explicit, while the reference to reputation appears in the definition of 
compliance risk.
Yet, there are also many convergence points, which might lead to the 
possibility of considering compliance risk as an OR component (e.g., 
this is the case of the Unicredit Group; see UniCredit, Reports and 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 2015), as well as lead to multiple syner-
gies and collaborative relations between the functions governing the 
two types of risk. This close relationship is also recognized by the Basel 
Committee (BCBS 2005), according to which there is “a close relation-
ship between compliance risk and certain aspects of operational risk”, 
owing to the existence of a “grey area”.
In fact, the existence of cross-cases emerges from a “grey area” that 
comprises contractual breaches (expressly listed among the events that 
bring about operational risk) and the bank’s responsibility because of 
non-compliant behaviour, which leads to lawsuits included in legal 
risk (ABI and DIPO 2009). The inclusion of legal risk in operational 
risk is the first and foremost cause of uncertainties on the borders and 
the distinctions between the various forms of risk.
By comparing the causes of compliance and operational risks 
(Table 2.2), we may evince that the cases of unsuitable rules and inter-
nal procedures are common and that there is a greater variety of oper-
ational risk events, including the so-called “pure” risk events. There is 
some uncertainty around the fact that all non-conformities automati-
cally translate into a compliance risk: the range of operational risk 
instances would be reduced arbitrarily. For example, an internal fraud 
that had occurred in the presence of inadequate control procedures on 
the authorization of the operations would be included in compliance 
risk, despite its being an operational risk. The same reasoning applies to 
a crash in the information technology system caused by a natural dis-
aster without the restoration of operations, owing to a violation of the 
business continuity system: this too is an event belonging to operational

--- Página 40 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        31
risk and not to compliance risk. Besides, intentionality should not be 
considered a valid discriminating criterion, as wrongful behaviour can-
not be assessed differently by simply being justified as deriving from 
carelessness or forgetfulness, whether wilful or not (Birindelli and 
Ferretti 2013).
Table 2.2 shows a greater variety of effects for compliance risk: it 
makes explicit reference to loss of reputation (second pillar risk), while 
the losses should be material, with the debatable consequence of exclud-
ing minor damage depending on normative violations. Compliance risk 
can affect (or not) reputation, and reputational risk can conceivably 
occur without generating compliance risk, in accordance with its nature 
as second level risk: an operational error could also impact the bank’s 
image. However, the exclusion of reputational risk from operational 
risk, whose events often lead to loss of image, has raised objections in 
the literature (Lawrence 2003).
Likewise, legal risk, a component of operational risk, does not 
include effects on reputation. Moreover, its causes differ from those of 
compliance risk: despite common sources, the violation of self-regula-
tion rules is to be attributed to compliance risk alone. Conversely, the 
losses deriving from inadequate and incorrect legal documentation 
Table 2.2  BCBS: comparison of risk definitions (Birindelli and Ferretti 2013)
Compliance risk
Operational risk
Legal risk
Causes
Failure to comply 
with laws, regu-
lations, and 
self-regulatory 
standards (e.g., 
statutes, codes 
of conduct)
Inadequate or failed 
internal processes, 
people, and systems or 
external events
Failure to comply 
with laws, regula-
tions, contractual 
and extra-contrac-
tual liability or 
other disputes
Effects
Legal or regula-
tory sanctions, 
material finan-
cial loss, or loss 
to reputation
Loss
Loss
Risks 
included
Reputational risk
Legal risk
Risks 
excluded
Strategic and  
reputational risk

--- Página 41 ---
32        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
or from documentation with excessively onerous clauses for the bank are 
included in legal risk, just like the losses due to non-compliant behav-
iours on behalf of the bank’s counterparts rather than of the bank itself.
The affinities between Compliance Function and Operational Risk 
Function spring from the management of shared risks, but also from the 
fact that they both constitute second level control structures with the 
task of identifying the risks involved in processes implemented by dif-
ferent functions. A model of virtuous synergies should be created with 
the aim of achieving a common purpose: cross risk management, facili-
tated by a mutual exchange and validation of information (Birindelli 
and Ferretti 2013).
Finally, it is worth noting that the relationship between compli-
ance risk and legal risk has been analysed in terms of the banks oper-
ating in a common legal system (Terblanche 2012). Compliance 
risk should be considered as a component of legal risk and, in turn, 
also as a component of operational risk in a common law legal sys-
tem. Terblanche (2012) defines legal risk as a wide concept that includes 
all aspects of a legal system, while compliance risk is a narrower concept 
that only includes the codified aspects of a legal system. Therefore, legal 
risk includes compliance risk, but compliance risk does not include 
legal risk.
2.4	
Conclusions
For a long time, operational risk has been acknowledged only as a tech-
nical issue. Unlike to credit and market risks, considered as the main 
source of anxiety for banks managers, it seemed that scholars were not 
interested in this topic. It is in the recent years, when Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision began to publish on how banks should manage 
their exposure to operational risk that researchers became interested in. 
Events such the collapse of Barings in 1995 and other financial scandals 
(e.g., Daiwa, Enron, Sumitomo, etc.) have highlighted the real danger 
of operational risk, in terms of direct losses and damage to reputation, 
and made the banking industry more convinced to deal with it carefully.

--- Página 42 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        33
Since then, the operational risk has been the subject of several stud-
ies. Many analyses have been focused on the operational risk profile of 
a bank, described by a matrix of business lines and event type, and on 
the main factors underlying the bank’s operational risk exposure. Great 
attention has also been given to the evolution of the operational risk 
over time and to its interrelations with other banking risks. All these 
discussions found common ground in the Basel 2 capital adequacy 
framework, where, among others, the operational risk was defined for 
the first time. The definition raises some questions about the necessity 
of clearly distinguishing the operational risk from other types of risks 
(credit, market, strategic, reputational and compliance risk), in order to 
avoid overlaps in their managing.
References
ABI (Associazione Bancaria Italiana) and DIPO (Database Italiano Perdite 
Operative) (Gruppo interbancario sulla Funzione Compliance dell’ABI e 
del Comitato Tecnico Criteri dell’Osservatorio DIPO). 2009. Definitions 
and possible synergies in the field of operational risk and compliance risk. 
Bancaria 65 (12): 81–87.
Aparicio, J., and E. Keskiner. 2004. A review of operational risk quantitative 
methodologies within the Basel-II framework, 1–26. Accenture Technology 
Labs.
Bazzarello, D., and V. De Mori. 2009. I rischi operativi: casi cross e strutture 
di limiti. In Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti (a cura di), Il Rischio operativo 
nelle banche italiane. Modelli, gestione e disclosure. Roma: Bancaria Editrice.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 1998. Operational risk 
management, September.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2001a. Consultative doc-
ument-operational risk, supporting document to the New Basel Capital 
Accord, January.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2001b. Working Paper on 
the regulatory treatment of operational risk, September.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2004. International con-
vergence of capital measurement and capital standards. A revised frame-
work, June (and updated versions).

--- Página 43 ---
34        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2005. Compliance and the 
compliance function in banks, April.
Belhaj, M. 2010. Capital Requirements for Operational Risk: An Incentive 
Approach. Juillet: GREQAM.
Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti. 2013. Compliance Function in Italian banks: 
organizational issues. Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance 21 (3): 
217–240.
Brighi, P. 2003. Gestione e misurazione del rischio operativo nel Nuovo 
Accordo di Basilea sul Capitale, Economia e diritto del terziario 3.
Cagan, P. 2008. What lies beneath. Operational risk issues underlying the sub-
prime crisis. The RMA Journal, 96–100.
Capgemini. 2013. Your people are your biggest asset and your biggest risk.
Carosio, G. 2001. Rischio operativo, strutture organizzative e controlli: il 
punto di vista della Banca d’Italia, in Locatelli R., Magistretti E., Scalerandi 
P., Carosio G., Il rischio operativo, Interventi tenuti nell’ambito delle 
Giornate Romane dell’A.A.S.S.B., Roma, 9 Novembre, quaderno n. 193.
CEBS (Committee of European Banking Supervisors). 2010. Compendium of 
supplementary guidelines on implementation issues of operational risk, 27 
July.
Cope, E.W., and L. Carrivick. 2013. Effects of the financial crisis on banking 
operational losses. Journal of Operational Risk 8 (3): 3–29.
Ellis, B., I. Kristensen, A. Krivkovich, and H. P. Singh. 2012. Driving value 
from postcrisis operational risk management, McKinsey Working Paper, no. 
34.
EBA (European Banking Authority). 2011. Guidelines on internal governance 
(GL 44), London, 27 September.
EBA (European Banking Authority). 2015. Final draft RTS on AMA assess-
ment for operational risk, 3 June 2015.
Fontnouvelle, P., V. Dejesus-Rueff, J. Jordan, and E. Rosengren. 2003. Using 
loss data to quantify operational risk, Federal Reserve, April, 1–32.
Hess, C. 2011. The impact of the financial crisis on operational risk in the 
financial services industry: empirical evidence. Journal of Operational Risk 6 
(1): 23–35.
Institute of Operational Risk. 2013. Top seven operational risks for 2013, 
April 14.
Lawrence, D. 2003. Operational risk implications of Basel II/CP3, Risk 
Forum, 19 June, 5–9.
Leeson, N. 1997. Rogue trader, Sphere.

--- Página 44 ---
2 The Operational Risk: An Overall Framework        35
Locatelli, R. 2004. Basilea 2 e rischi operativi: stato dell’arte e prospet-
tive, Convegno CeTIF – Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore di Milano, 
Milano, 18 marzo.
McConnell, P. 2013. Systemic operational risk: The LIBOR manipulation 
scandal. Journal of Operational Risk 8 (3): 59–99.
McConnell, P. 2014. LIBOR manipulation: Operational risks resulting from 
brokers’ misbehavior. Journal of Operational Risk 9 (1): 77–102.
McConnell, P. 2015. Modeling operational risk capital: The inconvenient 
truth. Journal of Operational Risk 10 (4): 73–111.
McConnell, P., and K. Blacker. 2013. Systemic operational risk: Does it exist 
and if so, how do we regulate it? Journal of Operational Risk 8 (1): 59–99.
Parnes, D. 2012. Modeling operational risk for good and bad bank loans. 
Journal of Operational Risk 7 (4): 43–67.
Poster, A., and E. Southworth. 2012. Lessons not learned: The role of opera-
tional risk in rogue trading, Risk Professional, June. http://www.garp.org.
Prokopenko, Y., and D. Bondarenko. 2012. Operational risk management: 
best practice overview and implementation. In Risk professional workshop, 
Tirana, Albania, September 10–11.
Rachev, S.T., A. Chernobai, and C. Menn. 2006. Empirical examination of 
operational loss distributions. In Perspectives on Operations Research, ed. M. 
Morlock, C. Schwindt, N. Trautmann, and J. Zimmermann, 379–401. 
DUV: Essays in Honor of Klaus Neumann.
Rick, S., and G.J. van den Brink. 2015. Mitigating rogue-trading behavior 
by means of appropriate, effective operational risk management. Journal of 
Operational Risk 10 (3): 1–20.
Sironi, A. 2003. Il rischio operativo: una nuova sfida per le banche italiane, 
Economia & Management 1.
Sundmacher, M., and G. Ford. 2004. Leading indicators for operational risk: 
case studies in financial services. http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.963235.
Terblanche, J.R. 2012. Legal risk and compliance for banks operating in a 
common law legal system. Journal of Operational Risk 7 (2): 67–79.

--- Página 45 ---
3.1	
Introduction
The current regulatory framework underlines operational risk as a sig-
nificant risk faced by banks and requires coverage by own funds. It 
includes provisions for three alternative approaches for calculating oper-
ational risk capital requirements, reflecting the broad diversity among 
European institutions. These approaches are namely the Basic Indicator 
Approach (BIA), the Standardized Approach (SA) and the Advanced 
Measurement Approach (AMA), which incorporate different levels of 
risk sensitivity requiring different degrees of sophistication.
In this chapter we analyse the main features of all these approaches, high-
lighting their critical issues. Finally, we shortly describe the last proposals of 
the Basel Committee, which, among others, propose a new standardized 
measurement approach for operational risk, as part of the broader objective of 
balancing simplicity, comparability and risk sensitivity.
3.2	
From Basel 2 to Basel 3: An Overview
The prudential treatment of the operational risk (OR) was first regu-
lated under Basel 2 (BCBS 2006). Indeed, after a thorough review of 
3
The Regulatory Framework
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks,  
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_3
37

--- Página 46 ---
38        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
numerous proposals and an international consultation process, Basel 2 
finally set the rules both for the determination of OR capital require-
ments (Pillar 1) and for the supervisory review process and market disci-
pline (Pillar 2 and Pillar 3).
Subsequently, according to an evolutionary logic and in response to 
the international financial and economic crisis, Basel 3 (BCBS 2011, 
2013) introduced important changes to the capital adequacy regulation 
for banks, though without altering the essence of the prudential treat-
ment of the OR. Similar to the previous regulatory framework, Basel 3 
maintained the articulation into three Pillars: minimum capital require-
ments (Pillar 1), supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and market dis-
cipline (Pillar 3). Basel 3 was then implemented across Europe by the 
Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR—Regulation No 575/2013 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on pru-
dential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms) and 
Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV—Directive 2013/36 of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access 
to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of 
credit institutions and investment firms).
The CRR underlines OR as a significant risk faced by financial insti-
tutions and requires coverage by own funds. It includes provisions for 
three alternative approaches for calculating OR capital requirements, 
reflecting the broad diversity among EU institutions. These approaches 
are namely the Basic Indicator Approach (BIA), the Standardized 
Approach (SA), the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), which 
incorporate different levels of risk sensitivity requiring different degrees 
of sophistication. In general, the CRR encourages institutions to shift 
towards more risk-sensitive approaches (Recital 52—CRR 575/2013).
The introduction of multiple methods for calculating capital require-
ments aims to achieve different objectives: (i) ensure correspond-
ence between the degree of refinement of the approach to the level of 
an intermediary’s risk exposure, (ii) limit the burden of regulation on 
smaller banks and (iii) formally acknowledge at supervisory level the 
improvements adopted by banks in OR management practices.
The provisions contained in Pillar 1 do not, however, represent a com-
prehensive solution for OR management, but must be rather considered 
as integrating provisions in Pillar 2 and 3. With particular reference to

--- Página 47 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        39
the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), banks must 
develop an appropriate governance logic anchored to the enhancement of 
a proper risk culture (see Sect. 4.2). Specifically, banks must implement a 
robust process for evaluating and monitoring operational losses linked to 
credit and financial activities (Krosner 2008), given that their inappropriate 
management may affect the intermediary’s capital adequacy—as has been 
observed in some of the crisis events. Moreover, when defining an OR strat-
egy, banks should consider also the definition of the OR and the identifica-
tion of sources of risk; the identification of the risk’s profile; the definition 
of OR appetite by means of measures easily accessible to management; the 
models and the tools used for the purpose of operational risk management 
(ORM); the integration of ORM into the wider risk management activity.
3.3	
Own Funds Requirements: The Less 
Sophisticated Approaches
The general principles governing the use of different approaches state 
that institutions must notify the competent authorities prior to using 
the (SA)  and that those institutions using the SA cannot revert to the 
use of the (BIA)  unless both the following conditions are met (Article 
313—CRR 575/2013):
•	 the institution has demonstrated to the competent authority that 
the use of a less sophisticated approach is not proposed in order to 
reduce the institution’s OR-related own funds requirements, and that 
the reversal is necessary on the basis of nature and complexity of the 
institution and that it would not have a material adverse impact on 
the solvency of the institution or its ability to manage OR effectively;
•	 the institution has received the prior permission on behalf of the 
competent authority.
Finally, a combination of approaches may also be used—provided 
institutions have obtained permission from the competent authorities.
Under the BIA, the own funds requirement for OR is equal to 15% 
of the average over 3 years of the relevant indicator (Article 315—CRR 
575/2013). Except for few adjustments specifically provided for in the

--- Página 48 ---
40        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
CRR (Article 316), the relevant indicator is determined as the sum of 
the interest receivable and similar income, the interest payable and simi-
lar charges, the income from shares and other variable/fixed-yield securi-
ties, the commissions/fees receivable, the commissions/fees payable, the 
net profit or net loss on financial operations and other operating income.
Institutions calculate the average over 3 years of the relevant indica-
tor on the basis of the last three twelve-monthly observations at the end 
of the financial year. However, special cases are foreseen, for example, 
in the event the audited figures are not available—in which case the 
institutions are allowed to use business estimates instead. Or again, if an 
institution has been in operation for less than 3 years, forward-looking 
business estimates may be used as alternative for calculating the relevant 
indicator, provided that historical data are used as soon as they become 
available. Moreover, whenever an institution can prove that the use of 
a three-year average in the calculation of the relevant indicator would 
lead to a biased estimate of the OR own funds requirement (either due 
to a merger, an acquisition or a disposal of entities or activities), it may 
obtain permission from the competent authority to amend the calcula-
tion in a way that would take into account such events. Finally, negative 
or null relevant indicators are not to be included in the calculation: the 
average over 3 years is calculated as the sum of positive figures divided 
by the number of positive figures.
With specific reference to the SA (Article 317—CRR 575/2013), institu-
tions are required to divide their activities into eight business lines (Table 3.1).
Institutions must calculate the own funds requirement for OR as the 
average over 3 years of the sum of the annual own funds requirements 
across all business lines. The annual own funds requirement of each busi-
ness line is equal to the product of the corresponding percentage and the 
part of the relevant indicator mapped to the respective business line.
In any given year, institutions may offset negative own funds require-
ments resulting from a negative part of the relevant indicator in any 
business line unlimitedly with positive own funds requirements in other 
business lines. However, where the aggregate own funds requirement 
across all business lines within a given year is negative, institutions must 
use zero as the input value to the numerator for that year. Institutions 
must calculate the average over 3 years of the sum of the annual own 
funds requirement on the basis of the last three twelve-monthly

--- Página 49 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        41
Table 3.1  Standardized approach: business line, list of activities, percentage 
(EU-CRR 575/2013)
Business line
Activities
Percentage 
(%)
Corporate 
finance
Underwriting of financial instruments or 
placing of financial instruments on a firm 
commitment basis; Services related to 
underwriting; Investment advice; Advice to 
undertakings on capital structure, industrial 
strategy and related matters and advice and 
services relating to the mergers and the pur-
chase of undertakings; Investment research 
and financial analysis and other forms of 
general recommendation relating to trans-
actions in financial instruments
18
Trading and sales
Dealing on own account; Money broking; 
Reception and transmission of orders in 
relation to one or more financial instru-
ments; Execution of orders on behalf 
of clients; Placing of financial instru-
ments without a firm commitment basis; 
Operation of Multilateral Trading Facilities
18
Retail brokerage
Reception and transmission of orders in rela-
tion to one or more financial instruments; 
Execution of orders on behalf of clients; 
Placing of financial instruments without a 
firm commitment basis
12
Commercial 
banking
Acceptance of deposits and other repayable 
funds; Lending financial leasing; Guarantees 
and commitments
15
Retail banking
Acceptance of deposits and other repayable 
funds; Lending financial leasing; Guarantees 
and commitments
12
Payment and set-
tlement
Money transmission services; Issuing and 
administering means of payment
18
Agency services
Safekeeping and administration of finan-
cial instruments for the account of clients, 
including custodianship and related services 
such as cash/collateral management
15
Asset  
management
Portfolio management; Managing of UCITS; 
Other forms of asset management
12

--- Página 50 ---
42        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
observations at the end of the financial year. The particular cases men-
tioned for the BIA also apply in the case of the SA as well.
Under the SA, institutions are required to develop and document 
specific policies and criteria for mapping the relevant indicator for cur-
rent business lines and activities; such policies and criteria must then 
be reviewed and adjusted as appropriate for new or changing business 
activities and risks.
The activity of business line mapping must be performed in fulfilment 
of a number of principles, as follows (Article 318—CRR 575/2013)1:
•	 institutions must map all activities into the business lines in a mutu-
ally exclusive and jointly exhaustive manner;
•	 institutions must allocate any activity that cannot be readily mapped 
into the business line framework, but that represents an ancillary activ-
ity to an activity included in the framework, to the business line it sup-
ports. Where more than one business line is supported through the 
ancillary activity, institutions must use an objective-mapping criterion;
•	 whenever an activity cannot be mapped into a particular business 
line, institutions must use the business line yielding the highest per-
centage. The same business line equally applies to any ancillary activ-
ity associated with that activity;
•	 institutions may use internal pricing methods to allocate the relevant 
indicator between business lines. Costs generated in one business line 
which are imputable to a different business line may be reallocated to 
the business line to which they pertain;
•	 the mapping of activities into business lines for OR capital purposes 
must be consistent with the categories institutions use for credit and 
market risks;
•	 senior management is responsible for the mapping policy under the 
control of the management body of the institution;
•	 institutions must subject the mapping process to business lines to 
independent review.
The institution intending to adopt the SA must abide to specific crite-
ria that closely related to its organizational structure (Article 320—CRR 
575/2013). In particular, it must have in place a well-documented OR 
assessment and management system, with clear responsibilities assigned

--- Página 51 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        43
for this system. It must identify its exposures to OR and track relevant OR 
data, including material loss data. Such system must be subject to regular 
independent audits carried out by an internal or external party possessing 
the appropriate knowledge to perform such audits. Moreover, the institu-
tion’s OR assessment system must be closely integrated into the risk man-
agement processes. Its output must be an integral part of the process of 
monitoring and controlling the institution’s OR profile. Lastly, the insti-
tution must implement a system of reporting to senior management that 
provides OR reports to relevant functions within the institution. The bank 
must have in place procedures for taking appropriate action according to 
the information within the reports to management.
Finally, in closing the analysis of the standardized method for calcu-
lating OR capital requirements we shall highlight that the competent 
authorities may permit institutions to use an alternative relevant indi-
cator for the business lines of retail banking and commercial banking 
(Alternative Standardized Approach—ASA). In particular, in the case 
of the ASA (Article 319—CRR 575/2013) the relevant indicator is a 
normalized income indicator equal to the nominal amount of loans 
and advances multiplied by 0.035; the loans and advances consist of 
the total drawn amounts in the corresponding credit portfolios. For 
the commercial banking business line, institutions also have to include 
securities held in the non-trading book in the nominal amount of loans 
and advances.
In order to be permitted to use the ASA, the institution’s retail or 
commercial banking activities have to account for at least 90% of its 
income; a significant proportion of the retail or commercial banking 
activities should comprise loans associated with a high probability of 
default; the ASA must be able to provide an appropriate basis for calcu-
lating the institution’s own funds requirement for OR.
3.3.1	 The Less Sophisticated Approaches: Some Critical 
Issues
Of all the approaches available for calculating the capital requirement 
for OR, the BIA and the SA evidence a contrast between a conceptual 
simplicity and the subjective capability—of varying intensity depending

--- Página 52 ---
44        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
on the method considered—of fully grasping the meaning and meas-
urement of OR. Indeed, these approaches represent approximate OR 
measures, which are unable to fully address the specificities of individual 
banks, due to their standardized nature.
This is especially true for the BIA; despite it featuring an intrinsic 
simplicity in calculation and use of easily available data, it does not take 
into account specific business areas, nor does it support allocation and 
enhancement policies of capital. The simplistic connotation of BIA evi-
dences the absence of specific recommendations on its adoption, which 
is however in all cases subject to the general principles of governance 
and management of OR. Moreover, the simplistic connotation of BIA 
explains, in general, the better capacity of such approach to adapt to the 
smaller bank settings with a more modest level of operational diversifi-
cation and limited complexity of the measurement systems.
The more “convenient” adoption of the BIA should not, however, 
hamper the development of the OR management process. Indeed, it is 
desirable that the bank continues to refine its ORM process after the 
minimum level of compliance has been achieved. This can be realized, 
for example, through the activation of an OR management system with 
assignment of roles and responsibilities and the definition of the process 
for identifying the relevant indicator in accordance with regulations. 
In other words, the bank should value the full use of the OR frame-
work considered in its complexity. Some actions in this direction are the 
establishment and/or strengthening of ties across the bank’s organiza-
tional functions; the conscious assessment of OR exposure, resulting in 
the identification of inefficiencies in business processes; the promotion 
of improvements in the functionality of the business and support pro-
cesses and in the quality of the internal control system.
On the other hand, the approximate results characterizing the SA go 
in parallel with the need of complying with certain standards, which 
may cast doubts on the possibility to draw concrete benefits from the 
application of this approach—unless it is interpreted as an intermediate 
step for subsequent implementation of the more advanced approach.
The SA does not provide timely information on the causes of OR 
and inevitably affects the proper development of strategies to contrast 
OR. Despite the differentiation of risk among the eight lines of business 
being a positive factor—especially in comparison with the BIA—the

--- Página 53 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        45
introduction of identical coefficients for all banks no longer allows 
to grasp the full impact of the losses suffered by each intermediary. 
Another critical issue might also be the hypothesis of the perfect cor-
relation between the different loss events, based on the assumption of a 
simultaneous manifestation of operational losses of the various business 
lines and thus of availability on the bank’s behalf of sufficient capital to 
face these joint events.
As in the case of the BIA, the approximate risk representation is fur-
ther influenced by an unconvincing correlation between exposure to 
OR and the relevant indicator, calculated on the basis of the CRR pro-
visions. Questions also arise in consideration of the average value of the 
relevant indicator to be referred to the last 3 years, especially in cases 
where the intermediary takes part in extraordinary corporate finance 
operations, such as Merger and Acquisitions (M&A).
The assumption of the relevant indicator as proxy for the exposure to 
OR intuitively implies that the latter increases with the former; taking 
this to an extreme, on the basis of this relationship between the relevant 
indicator and the OR exposure, a bank with high profitability and with 
an efficient OR management system is required to set aside a higher 
amount of capital compared to a competitor bank with lower margins 
and perhaps with a weaker OR management. Moreover, the dependence 
of the capital requirement from the relevant indicator does not allow to 
capture extremes OR events—such as natural disasters or similar rising 
from external events—typically unrelated to the bank’s business volume. 
A meaningful measure of bank’s activity leads to an adequate quantifica-
tion of regulatory capital exclusively for activities whose exposure to OR 
are easily measurable and, therefore, for specific event types attributable 
to certain business lines and with a probability of occurrence that makes 
possible a prediction of reliable forecasts (this is the case for instance of 
fraud on credit cards in the retail banking).
The multiplicity of regulatory percentages—a distinctive feature of 
the SA compared to the BIA—is intended to reflect the different impact 
of operational losses on the income capacity of the individual lines of 
business: those with historically low margins are combined to those 
with higher percentages, in line with the empirical evidence showing 
that operating losses have the most impact on specific activities such as 
those relating to the “trading and sales” and “payment and settlement”.

--- Página 54 ---
46        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
The introduction of a variety of percentages implies a general sensitivity 
of the income capability of the business lines to OR, hypothesizing low 
margins (related to high impact operational loss) in business lines with 
high percentages. Therefore, the event that a bank might suffer a severe 
loss in operational areas associated with limited OR exposure is under-
estimated; what is more is that the severity of the loss is defined without 
weighing the intermediary’s characteristics in terms of risk management 
systems and risk mitigation policies.
Finally, the adoption of the SA is not always accompanied by con-
venience in terms of reduction in capital requirements. The transition 
from the BIA to the SA does not automatically generate a capital saving, 
which is determined by the operational characteristics of the bank and, 
more specifically, by the distribution of the relevant indicator among 
the different business lines. As to this latter aspect, it may occur that 
the relevant indicator is mostly derived from the business lines corre-
sponding to a lower regulatory percentage; in such case the banks may 
have the advantage of adopting the SA, though, this must be evaluated 
on a case-to-case basis according to the trade-off between lower capital 
requirement and implementation SA burden. Conversely, if the margin 
is formed mainly in business lines with high percentages, the intermedi-
ary who opts for the SA is subject to a double penalty: a higher absorp-
tion of regulatory capital and higher costs of compliance.
Beyond the considerations above, whether the SA adopted represents 
an intermediate step towards the Advanced Approach or not, it should 
not be uncoupled from a progressive enhancement of OR management 
processes. As observed for the BIA, in this specific case the bank must 
consolidate more than ever the minimum level of compliance, while 
aiming at the same time to develop the OR framework to its fullest, 
in the perspective of exploiting the strategic importance of an effec-
tive ORM system. This means first of all ensuring that the compliance 
requirements of the supervisory authority translate into substantial OR 
management measures. This refers, for example, to the preparation of a 
structured process of Loss Data Collection (LDC); the classification of 
the activities into the business lines in fulfilment with the supervisory 
instructions; the implementation of supporting IT systems; the setting 
of the self-assessment processes and internal audits to verify at least the

--- Página 55 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        47
classification of activities and the calculation of the capital requirement; 
the activation of an adequate management reporting system.
According to an evolutionary logic, the bank must then strengthen 
the quantitative and qualitative standards upon which the ORM is 
based through the assessment of OR exposure also embracing scenario 
analysis, Key Risk Indicators (KRIs)  and historical data; the extension 
of the self-assessment process and internal audit to the LDC; the wider 
operational use of the measurement system (“use test”).
3.4	
Own Funds Requirements: The Advanced 
Approach
In the case of institutions complying with the general risk management 
standards and meeting specific qualitative and quantitative standards 
(the former are summarized in Box 3.1), the competent authorities may 
authorize the adoption of (AMA)  based on the institutions’ own OR 
measurement systems.
As for the case of the SA and the foreseen specifications, institu-
tions using the AMA cannot revert to the use of the less sophisticated 
approaches. Moreover, as established by the CRR in order to avoid a 
significant drop in capital requirements after the implementation of 
Basel 2, up until 31 December 2017 institutions are mandated to calcu-
late their requirements in line with a capital floor (currently set at 80% 
of the capital requirements under Basel 1).
Box 3.1 Qualitative standards for AMA (Article 321—CRR 575/2013)
The qualitative standards a bank must meet to adopt the AMA in conduct-
ing its business (“use test” ) reflect similar requirements to credit risk for 
the internal ratings based approach. Such standards include the following:
•	 an internal OR measurement system closely integrated into the institu-
tion’s day-to-day risk management processes;
•	 an independent risk management function for OR;
•	 a regular reporting of OR exposures and loss experience and proce-
dures for taking appropriate corrective action;

--- Página 56 ---
48        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 a well-documented risk management system and routine procedures 
for ensuring compliance, and policies for the handling non-compliance;
•	 regular review of ORM processes and measurement systems performed 
by internal or external auditors;
•	 internal validation processes in respect of an OR measurement system 
operation in a sound and effective manner;
•	 transparent and accessible data flow and processes associated with the 
risk measurement system.
The quantitative standards (Article 322—CRR 575/2013) include 
requirements relating both to the AMA process and to its four elements: 
internal data, external data, scenario analysis, and business environment 
and internal control factors (BEICF).
The quantitative standards related to process include the following:
•	 calculation of the capital requirement, comprising both expected and 
unexpected loss, unless the bank can demonstrate that expected loss 
is adequately captured in its internal business practices;
•	 the OR measure capturing potentially severe tail events, achieving a 
soundness standard comparable to a 99.9% confidence interval over 
a one-year period;
•	 the OR measurement system comprising specific key elements to 
meet the soundness standard, among which the use of internal data, 
external data, scenario analysis and factors reflecting the business 
environment and internal control systems;
•	 a well-documented approach for weighting the use of the four ele-
ments in the overall risk measurement system;
•	 a depiction of major risk drivers affecting the shape of the tail of loss 
estimates;
•	 recognition of OR loss correlations across individual OR estimates 
exclusively in the case sound correlation measurement systems are in 
place, implemented with integrity and informed on the uncertainty 
surrounding such estimates, and validation of correlation assump-
tions using appropriate quantitative and qualitative techniques;
•	 internal consistency and without multiple counting of qualitative 
assessments or risk mitigants.

--- Página 57 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        49
In reference to internal data, standards expect the bank’s inter-
nally generated OR measures to: (i) be based on a minimum historical 
observation period of 5 years (3 years when a bank first moves to the 
AMA) (ii) be able to map the bank’s historical internal loss data into the 
business lines (Table 3.1) and into specified event-type categories (see 
Sect. 2.2), and (iii) provide this data to the regulator upon request. A 
bank must have in place documented, objective criteria for allocating 
losses to the specified business lines and event types. In exceptional cir-
cumstances, a bank may allocate loss events that affect the entire firm to 
an additional business line “corporate items”.
An institution’s ORM system must use relevant external data, espe-
cially when there is reason to believe that the institution is exposed to 
infrequent, yet potentially severe, losses. To this end, a bank must have 
in place a systematic process for determining the situations for which 
external data should be used and the methodologies used to incorporate 
the data in the measurement system. Requirements must be met also 
to document the conditions and practices for external data and subject 
them to periodic independent review.
In addition to the external data, the bank must utilize scenario analy-
sis based on expert opinions, to evaluate its exposure to highly severe 
events. Over time, the institution shall validate and challenge such 
assessments with comparisons to actual loss experience that can warrant 
their reliability.
One core element in an institution’s risk assessment methodology is 
its capability of identifying key business environment and internal control 
factors that can change the institution’s OR profile. Each factor must be 
demonstrated to represent a meaningful risk driver based upon both the 
previous experience and the judgment of experts from the business areas 
affected; moreover, the bank must demonstrate that risk estimates are 
sensitive enough to capture any modifications occurring to such factors. 
In addition to capturing changes in risk due to improvements in risk 
controls, the risk measurement framework must also be able to identify 
potential increase in risk entailed by the greater complexity of activities 
or increased business volume. The bank must document its risk meas-
urement framework and submit it to independent review within the 
institution and by competent authorities. Over time, the bank has to

--- Página 58 ---
50        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
validate and reassess the process and the outcomes through comparison 
to actual internal loss experience and relevant external data.
Lastly, a bank may be permitted to recognize the impact of insur-
ance subject to specified conditions and other risk transfer mechanisms 
where it is able to demonstrate that a noticeable risk mitigating effect is 
achieved (Article 323—CRR 575/2013). The capital reduction arising 
from the recognition of insurance and other risk transfer mechanisms 
must not exceed 20% of the capital requirement before the recognition 
of risk mitigation techniques (for further information see Chap. 5).
3.4.1	 Regulatory Technical Standards on AMA
The framework on AMA requirements established by the CRR 
575/2013 is completed by Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS) 
developed by the EBA in accordance with the mandate contained in 
CRR Article 312. In particular, the CRR mandates the EBA to prepare 
draft RTS concerning both the conditions for assessing the materiality 
of extensions and changes to the AMA, as well as to the Internal Rating 
Based Systems for credit risk (Box 3.2) and the assessment methodology 
under which the competent authorities permit institutions to use AMA.
Box 3.2 Conditions for assessing the materiality of extensions and 
changes
In December 2013 the EBA prepared specific RTS, adopted by the 
European Commission on 12 March, 2014. The key features of these RTS 
are as follows (EBA 2013):
•	 the introduction of three categories of model extensions and changes: 
(1) those requiring permission from the competent authorities; (2) 
those of a lesser materiality, but still featuring a degree of material-
ity that requires notification to the competent authorities before their 
implementation; (3) finally, those of an even lesser degree of material-
ity, which therefore need only to be notified to the competent authori-
ties in regular intervals, after their implementation;
•	 the introduction of an exhaustive list of qualitative conditions and 
the design of the quantitative threshold as back-stop regime. In par-
ticular, the extensions and changes falling under a category of lesser

--- Página 59 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        51
materiality may still alter the own funds requirements. Hence quantita-
tive thresholds are applied as a back-stop measure in addition to quali-
tative conditions when determining the materiality of an extension 
and change. The thresholds are based on the percentage change of 
own funds requirements or, where applicable, of risk-weighted expo-
sure amounts before and after the planned extension and change;
•	 the inclusion of standardized documentation requirements, which ena-
ble competent authorities to assess compliance of institutions with the 
abovementioned rules.
With regard to the mandate of “assessment methodology under which 
the competent authorities permit institutions to use AMA”, the EBA 
published specific RTS (EBA 2015) which detail the criteria that com-
petent authorities need to take into account before granting institutions 
the permission to use the AMA for calculating OR capital requirements.
Such RTS are part of the overall review of internal models under-
taken by the EBA and are part of the efforts to harmonize practices for 
the approval of internal models in the area of OR (and also credit and 
market risks) models across the EU banking sector. To this end, these 
RTS set out common standards for the supervisory assessment of an 
institution’s classification, identification, collection and treatment of 
OR events for management and measurement purposes. The final goal 
is to ensure that the ORM system is based on a well-founded methodol-
ogy, is effective in capturing the institutions’ actual and potential ORs, 
is reliable and robust in generating AMA regulatory capital require-
ments, and is comparable across institutions.
The main features of such RTS are reported in Box 3.3 (EBA 2015), 
while the major hallmarks of the AMA framework are covered in the 
following pages.
Box 3.3 RTS—Key features
(1)	Under the AMA, an institution uses its own internal model to calcu-
late capital requirements with respect to its OR profile. The elements 
used to determine the OR profile comprise OR data gathered internally 
and OR data taken from external sources. The regulation (neither the 
CRD 36/2013 nor the CRR 575/2013) does not provide indications of the 
scope of OR, leaving the definitions open to different interpretations 
and allowing institutions to choose how they are implemented; this can

--- Página 60 ---
52        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
have effects in relation to OR regulatory capital and management prac-
tices as well as with regard to supervisory assessment purposes. Indeed, 
institutions with similar events and losses in OR may come up with sig-
nificant differences in terms of OR profile and AMA regulatory capital.
(2)	With the intention of ensuring uniform application of the scope of 
OR across the EU, and avoiding inconsistencies in the determination 
of institutions’ OR profile, the RTS set out common standards for the 
supervisory assessment of an institution’s classification, identification, 
collection and treatment of OR events and losses for management and 
measurement purposes. Authorities must refer to these criteria when 
assessing whether an institution AMA framework is effective in captur-
ing and representing its OR profile.
(3)	Sound ORM represents, among others, the foundation of an effective 
ORM framework. To this end, the RTS also introduce common standards 
for the supervisory assessment of the qualitative elements of an AMA 
framework; particular focus is given to the role and responsibilities of 
the OR management function, the “use test”  requirement, the data 
quality and IT systems and the scope of audit and validation functions.
(4)	OR modelling is a relatively new and evolving discipline, and each 
institution has a certain degree of flexibility in building its OR meas-
urement system. However, this flexibility should not favour the 
development and implementation of ineffective, inconsistent, or 
insufficiently risk-sensitive internal risk models. For example, the 
CRR 575/2013 requires an institution adopting the AMA to use inter-
nal data, external data, scenario analysis and BEICFs as inputs to its 
OR measurement system; however, it does not clarify the manner 
in which these elements should be combined to calculate the capital 
requirements. Therefore, the RTS set out standards for the supervisory 
assessment of key components of the OR measurement system, aimed 
at ensuring that the system is based on a well-founded methodology, 
effective at capturing the institutions’ actual and potential ORs, reli-
able and robust in generating capital requirements and comparable 
across institutions.
With specific reference to the regulations established by the EBA, the 
RTS addressing the elements making up an institution’s AMA frame-
work are broken down into six chapters: General rules for the assess-
ment methodology; Scope of OR; Qualitative standards—Governance 
and Operational risk management; Quantitative standards—Opera-
tional risk measurement; Insurance and other risk transfer mechanisms; 
Final provisions. Below we outline the contents of the five chapters 
(leaving out the last one on the transitional and final provisions of the

--- Página 61 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        53
regime), anticipating the topics of the insights provided in other parts of 
this volume.
General Rules for the Assessment Methodology
For the purposes of assessing whether an institution complies with the 
requirements on documentation of the risk management system, author-
ities need to verify the quality and auditability of the documentation on 
the AMA (EBA 2015). In assessing the quality of the documentation, 
authorities need to verify that it be sufficiently detailed and accurate in 
order to allow the examination of the AMA by third parties and need, in 
particular, to verify the compliance with specific requirements.
Scope of Operational Risk
In order to assess whether an institution properly articulates what con-
stitutes OR for the purposes of implementing policies and processes to 
evaluate and manage the OR exposure—as required by the CRD IV—
authorities must verify that the institution identify, collect and handle 
data on OR events and losses related to legal, model and market risks.
Qualitative Standards—Governance and Operational Risk Management
This chapter is in turn divided into several sections: one dedicated to the 
principles of governance, a second to use test, a third to the audit and 
internal validation and the last to the data quality and IT infrastructure.
The Section Use Test states that the internal ORM must be closely 
integrated into an institution’s day-to-day management process on a con-
tinuous basis and the AMA must be used also for internal purposes and 
to further enhance the institution’s OR organization and control. Finally, 
the institution must demonstrate the stability and robustness of the AMA 
output by comparing the AMA own funds requirements to the capital 
requirements resulting from its previous regulatory regime (EBA 2015).
The data flows and processes associated with the ORM system must 
be transparent and accessible. To this end, the institution’s data qual-
ity and the composite hardware, software and network resources and 
services required for the existence, operation and management of an IT 
infrastructure for AMA purposes must be appropriate. Particularly, the 
quality of the data used in the AMA framework must be maintained

--- Página 62 ---
54        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
over time, and the building and maintenance procedures must be regu-
larly analysed by the institution, which must ensure also the soundness, 
robustness and performance of the IT infrastructures (EBA 2015).
Quantitative Standards—Operational Risk Measurement
The topic of quantitative standards is articulated in different sections: one 
on the use of the four elements (a sub-section focused on internal data), 
one on the core modelling assumptions of the OR measurement system, 
one on the expected loss and correlation, and one on the capital alloca-
tion mechanism.
Insurance and Other Risk Transfer Mechanisms
In order to assess the compliance of an institution with the requirements 
relating to the impact of insurance and other risk transfer mechanisms 
within an AMA, authorities must verify that the insurance provider meet 
the authorization requirements set out by the CRR (Article 323); that the 
institution avoid the multiple counting of risk mitigation techniques; that 
the risk mitigation calculation appropriately reflect the insurance coverage 
and that the framework for recognizing insurance be well reasoned and 
documented; that the institution’s methodology for recognizing insur-
ance capture all the relevant elements through discounts or haircuts in the 
amount of insurance recognition; finally, that the institution demonstrate 
that a noticeable risk mitigating effect is achieved with the introduction of 
the other risk transfer mechanisms (insights are discussed in Chap. 5).
The Four Elements of the AMA and the Other Quantitative 
Standards
In order to assess whether an institution is compliant with the AMA 
quantitative standards, the authorities must verify the institution is ful-
filling the requirements referring to (i) the use of the four elements; (ii) 
the standards relating to the core modelling assumptions of the OR 
measurement system—and in particular—to its ability to capture tail 
events and the major drivers of risk affecting the shape of the tail; (iii) 
the standards relating to expected loss and correlation; (iv) the standards

--- Página 63 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        55
relating to the internal consistency of the OR—Capital allocation 
mechanism (EBA 2015).
The Use of the Four Elements
The institution must produce internal documentation specifying how the 
four elements are gathered, combined and/or weighted. Such documenta-
tion must describe the modelling process that illustrates the use and com-
bination of the four elements and the rationale for the modelling choices. 
To this end, authorities must verify that the institution have a clear 
understanding of how each of the four elements influences the AMA own 
funds requirements, and that the combination of the four AMA elements 
used be based on a sound statistical methodology (EBA 2015).
Authorities must verify that, for the collection or generation and treat-
ment of the four elements, the institution apply all the criteria relating to 
internal data, external data, scenario analysis and BEICFs (EBA 2015).
For what concerns internal data (EBA 2015), the institution must 
implement in a clear and consistent manner the loss caused by the 
occurrence of an OR, before taking into account recoveries of any type 
(gross loss or loss); the occurrence related to the original loss that is 
independent of that loss and that is separate in time, in which funds 
or inflows of economic benefits are received from first or third par-
ties (recovery); the recovery from insurers (insurance recovery) and the 
recovery from other parties (recovery except insurance).
Moreover, following an OR event—except when the OR event leads 
to a gross loss that is partly or fully recovered within five working days 
(rapidly recovered loss event)—the institution must be able to iden-
tify separately the gross loss amount, the insurance recoveries, and the 
recoveries without the insurance.
The institution also has to implement a system for defining and jus-
tifying appropriate thresholds, based on the gross loss amount and for 
identifying and collecting losses for management and measurement pur-
poses (data collection threshold).
The data collection threshold selected by the institution for each 
level, such as the institution’s organizational unit, the OR event type, 
the business line at which the institution’s OR measurement system 
generates separate frequency and severity distributions (operational risk

--- Página 64 ---
56        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
category), must be reasonable and must not omit loss data that is mate-
rial for effective OR measurement and risk management.
Lastly, for each individual loss, the institution must be able to identify 
and record in the internal database at least the date on which the OR 
event happened or first began (date of occurrence)—where available—
the date on which the institution became aware of the OR event (date 
of discovery) and the date when a loss, or reserve, or provision against a 
loss was first recognized in the profit and loss (date of accounting).
Specific provisions on internal data are set out also with reference to 
the scope of OR loss, for the purposes of both OR management and 
calculation of the AMA own funds requirements. In particular, the OR 
loss must include the following items (EBA 2015):
•	 direct charges (including impairments and settlement charges) to the 
profit and loss account and write-downs due to the OR event;
•	 costs incurred as a consequence of the OR event including both external 
expenses with a direct link to the OR event, such as legal expenses and 
fees paid to advisors, attorneys or suppliers, and costs of repair or replace-
ment to restore the position prevailing before the OR event, either in the 
form of precise figures, or, where these are not available, of estimates;
•	 provisions or reserves accounted for in the profit and loss account 
against probable OR losses including those from misconduct events;
•	 losses stemming from OR events, which are temporarily booked in tran-
sitory or suspense accounts and are not yet reflected in the profit and loss 
account (pending losses), and which are planned to be included within a 
time period commensurate to the size and age of the pending item;
•	 material uncollected revenues, related to contractual obligations with 
third parties, such as the decision to compensate a client following 
the OR event, rather than by a reimbursement or direct payment, 
through a revenue adjustment waiving or reducing contractual fees 
for a specific period of time in the future;
•	 negative economic impacts booked in a financial accounting period 
due to OR events impacting the cash flows or financial statements of 
previous financial accounting periods (timing losses), where they span 
more than one financial accounting year and give rise to legal risk.

--- Página 65 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        57
Moreover, the institution must consider any additional items when-
ever they originate from a material OR event (EBA 2015). These 
include a nil loss caused by the occurrence of an OR event, such as an 
IT disruption in the trading room just outside trading hours (near-
misses); a gain caused by the occurrence of an OR event (OR gain); an 
increase in costs or a shortfall in revenues due to OR events that prevent 
undetermined future business from being conducted, such as unbudg-
eted staff costs, forgone revenue, and project costs related to improving 
processes (opportunity cost); internal costs such as overtime or bonuses.
Excluded from the scope of OR loss are the costs of general mainte-
nance contracts on property, plant or equipment; the internal or exter-
nal expenditures to enhance the business after the occurrence of an OR 
event such as upgrades, improvements, risk assessment initiatives and 
enhancements, and insurance premiums.
Another standard related to internal data is linked to the need to guaran-
tee that the institution record the loss amount generated by an OR event. 
Therefore authorities must verify that the whole amount of the incurred 
loss or expenses be considered as recorded loss amount for the purposes of 
both management of OR and calculation of the AMA own funds require-
ments, and in particular, that the recorded loss amount include all of the 
external expenses incurred as a result of the OR event, such as provisions, 
costs of settlement, amounts paid to make good the damage, penalties, 
interest in arrears and legal fees, unless otherwise specified.
To this end, the following requirements must be met (EBA 2015):
•	 where the OR event relates to market risk, authorities must verify 
that the institution include in the recorded loss amount of the OR 
items the costs to unwind market positions, unless the position is 
intentionally kept open after the OR event is recognized. Where the 
position is intentionally kept open after the OR event is recognized, 
authorities must verify that any portion of the loss due to adverse 
market conditions after the decision to keep the position open is not 
included in the recorded loss amount of the OR items;
•	 where tax payments relate to failures or inadequate processes of the 
institution, authorities must verify that the institution include in 
the recorded loss amount of the OR items the expenses incurred

--- Página 66 ---
58        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
as a result of the OR event, such as penalties, interest charges, late-
payment charges and legal fees, with the exclusion of the tax amount 
originally due;
•	 where the OR event leads to a rapidly recovered loss event, authori-
ties must consider appropriate that the bank count among the 
recorded loss amount of OR items only the part of loss that is not 
rapidly recovered;
•	 where there are timing losses, authorities must verify that the institu-
tion include among the recorded loss amount of the OR items all 
the external expenses incurred as a result of the OR event. Where the 
OR event directly affects third parties (e.g. customers, providers or 
employees of the institution) authorities must verify that the institu-
tion include in the recorded loss amount of the OR item also the cor-
rection of the financial statement.
The last issue concerning the internal data concerns the OR losses 
related to credit risk. For this purpose it is foreseen that the institution 
include—for the ORM purposes—within the scope of OR loss all the 
following: frauds committed by a client on its own account, occurring 
in a credit product or credit process at the initial stage of the lifecycle 
of a credit relationship (first-party fraud), and in particular induce-
ment to lending decisions based on counterfeit documents or mis-stated 
financial statements, such as non-existence or overestimation of collat-
erals and counterfeit salary confirmation; frauds committed using the 
identity of an unaware person (third-party fraud), either occurring in 
a credit product or credit process (loan applications through electronic 
identity fraud—phishing—and using clients’ data or using fictitious 
identities; fraudulent use of clients’ credit cards by third parties).
In reference to external data (EBA 2015), in the case the institution 
participates in consortia initiatives for the collection of OR events and 
losses, the institution must be able to provide data of the same stand-
ard-fulfilling quality—in terms of scope, integrity and comprehensive-
ness—of internal data, and in agreement with consortia data reporting 
standards. The institution must also have a data filtering process in 
place, which allows the selection of relevant external data, based on spe-
cific predefined criteria. In order to avoid bias in parameter estimates, 
the filtering process must select data consistently regardless of the loss

--- Página 67 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        59
amount, and—where the institution permits exceptions to this selection 
process–must have a policy providing criteria for exceptions and docu-
mentation supporting the rationale for those exceptions. Moreover, if 
the institution adopts a data scaling process involving the adjustment of 
loss amounts reported in external data (or of the related distributions) 
to fit the institution’s business activities, nature and risk profile, the scal-
ing process must be systematic and statistically supported and provide 
outputs consistent with the institution’s risk profile. The institution’s 
scaling process must be consistent over time and its appropriateness 
must be regularly reviewed.
The implementation of third AMA element, scenario analysis (EBA 
2015), foresees that the institution have in place a robust governance 
framework relating to the scenario process that can allow it to gener-
ate credible and reliable estimates, independently from whether the 
scenario is used for evaluating high severity events or the overall OR 
exposure. To this end, authorities must verify that:
•	 the scenario process be clearly defined, well-documented, reproduc-
ible and designed to reduce as much as possible subjectivity and 
biases. Among these, the underestimation of risk due the small num-
ber of observed events (overconfidence bias); the misrepresentation of 
information due to the assessors’ conflict of interests with the goals 
and consequences of the assessment (motivational bias); the overes-
timation of events with temporal proximity to the scenario assessors 
(availability bias); the distortion of assessments due to the categories 
within which the responses are represented (partition dependence); 
the bias towards information presented in background materials to 
survey questions or within the questions themselves (anchoring);
•	 qualified and experienced facilitators provide consistency in the process;
•	 the assumptions used in the scenario process be based, to the maxi-
mum extent, on the relevant internal data and external data with an 
objective and unbiased selection process;
•	 the number of scenarios chosen, the level of detail at which the sce-
narios are studied, and the units in which they are studied be realis-
tic and properly explained, and that the scenario estimates take into 
account relevant changes in the internal and external environments 
that can affect the institution’s OR exposure;

--- Página 68 ---
60        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 the scenario estimates be generated taking into account in particu-
lar potential or probable OR events that have not yet, fully or partly, 
materialized in an OR loss;
•	 the scenario process and estimates be subject to a robust independent 
challenge process and oversight.
The last element of the AMA, the business environment and internal 
control factors (BEICFs), must be forward-looking and reflect potential 
sources of OR such as rapid growth, the introduction of new products, 
employee turnover and system downtime. The institution must have 
clear policy guidelines that limit the magnitude of reductions in the 
AMA own funds requirements caused by BEICFs adjustments. The lat-
ter must be well justified and the appropriateness of their level must be 
confirmed by comparison, over time, with the direction and magnitude 
of actual internal loss data, conditions in the business environment and 
changes in the validated effectiveness of controls (EBA 2015).
Core Modelling Assumptions of the OR Measurement System
The institution must develop, implement and maintain an OR measure-
ment system that is methodologically well founded, effective in captur-
ing the institution’s actual and potential OR, and reliable and robust in 
generating AMA own funds requirements. To this purpose, authorities 
must verify that the institution have appropriate policies on the building 
of the portion of data gathered (either actual or constructed) that fulfils 
the necessary conditions to serve as input to the OR measurement sys-
tem to generate the AMA own funds requirement (calculation data set).
Another modelling assumption of the OR measurement system 
is that the institution apply the appropriate level of granularity in its 
model. To this end, the institution must take into account the nature, 
complexity and idiosyncrasies of its business activities and the ORs 
which it is exposed to, grouping together risks, sharing risk factors, and 
defining the OR categories of an AMA. The institution must justify its 
choice of level of granularity of its OR categories on the basis of qualita-
tive and quantitative means, and classify OR categories based on homo-
geneous, independent and stationary data. The institution’s choice of 
level of granularity of its OR categories must be realistic and must not 
adversely affect the conservatism of the model outcome or of its parts.

--- Página 69 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        61
The institution must review the choice of level of granularity of its OR 
categories on a regular basis with the view to ensuring that it remains 
appropriate.
A third modelling assumption is that the institution has in place an 
appropriate process for identification of frequency and severity distribu-
tion of loss (loss distributions). The institution must follow a well-spec-
ified, documented and traceable process for the selection, update and 
review of loss distributions and the estimate of their parameters.
The last modelling assumption requires the institution to determine 
the frequency-severity aggregated loss distributions and risk measures 
in an appropriate manner. The techniques elaborated by the institution 
for that purpose shall guarantee that levels of precision and stability of 
the risk measures are appropriate, and that the risk measures are supple-
mented with information on their level of accuracy.
Expected Loss and Correlation
In the case an institution calculates the AMA own funds requirements 
only in relation to unexpected loss (UL), it must comply with specified 
requirements.
With regard to the assessment of standards relating to correlation, 
the institution must carefully consider any form of linear or non-linear 
dependence, relating to all the data, either to the body or to the tail, 
across two or more OR categories or within an OR category, which will 
then be verified by authorities.
Capital Allocation Mechanism
The institution’s capital allocation mechanism must be fully consistent 
with the institution’s risk profile and with the overall design of the OR 
measurement system; fulfilment of such requirements will then be veri-
fied by authorities.
3.4.2	 Some Considerations on Advanced Methodologies
The adoption of advanced methods is generally associated with ben-
efits such as risk differentiation among the Business Lines (BLs), the 
development of an OR sensitivity, the definition of appropriate capital

--- Página 70 ---
62        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
allocation policies, the setting of an active risk management, the pursuit 
of related objectives of efficiency and performance, as well as the saving 
of regulatory capital.
Such advantages, however, represent half the story; in fact, we must 
also consider the doubts and concerns related to the implementation of 
the AMA and their impact on the OR measurement and management 
systems. To a first approximation, the many critical issues relate to the 
high complexity of the models and the difficulties related to the incor-
poration of all four elements in the AMA framework.
Other criticisms concern the use of Value at Risk (VaR) , which is not 
fully effective at measuring risk when the returns do not follow a statis-
tically normal distribution—as frequently occurs in OR. Furthermore, 
VaR provides an indication on the amount of risk, but not on its form 
of manifestation (legal risk, technological risk and so on).
Regulatory capital savings originated from the adoption of the AMA 
is another concern yet, raising questions on the validity of the reasons 
for the possible reduction of capital for the OR coverage in comparison 
with the more simplified approaches (BIA and SA).
Foremost we need to consider the opportunity of abandoning 
the assumptions of perfect correlation between BLs and event types. 
Despite the authorities having allowed the incorporation of estimates of 
the correlation between the operating losses in the calculation of capital 
requirement, there has been no appreciable uniformity in the approach 
adopted by intermediaries neither in terms of quantifying the depend-
ence between BLs and event types nor in terms of the methods used to 
measuring that dependence.
Another open issue is the identification of appropriate techniques for the 
incorporation of insurance policies, such as OR mitigation tools that take 
into account the severity of the conditions for their eligibility (see Chap. 5).
According to some scholars, the only true reason that can explain 
the lower capital absorption resulting from the use of advanced mod-
els lies in the flexibility and discretion that the bank can follow in the 
construction of such models; hence a competitive disadvantage for the 
smaller institutions and the misalignment of the regulatory dictated to 
the objective of a level playing field.
These considerations—highlighting some of the AMA’s weak-
nesses—point to the need of strengthening the elements of advanced

--- Página 71 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        63
approaches. As for the standardized approaches, the suggestion here 
is not to limit action once the minimum level of compliance has been 
reached, but to continue in pursuit of the refinement of the different 
steps that lead to the construction and maintenance of the AMA. It is 
important to increase, within the LDC, the capability of representing 
both the current risk—through the effective identification of the mul-
tiple-effect and multiple-sequence events—as well as the potential risk, 
through the estimation of near-misses and opportunity costs. It is neces-
sary to emphasize the contribution of the qualitative model of the anal-
yses, and thus of the scenario analyses, evaluating the prospective risk 
factors (related to changes in the organizational, business and market 
profiles) and increasing the transparency and objectivity of assessments 
towards the benefit of their quality (for this latter aspect, an explana-
tion of the most significant deviations between the subjective judgments 
and past evaluations and/or estimates originated from historical data 
might be necessary). The enrichment of the qualitative component may 
also arise from the optimization of KRIs, identifying those with bet-
ter capacity for representation and prediction of OR. The model must 
feature (i) appreciable robustness, even in the face of adverse scenarios; 
incorporate the effects of correlation and risk mitigation, (ii) develop 
risk-sensitive allocation policies, and (iii) achieve a capital estimate that 
is properly balanced between the historical and the perspective com-
ponent. Finally, special attention should be given to the enhancement 
of the use test, in order to be able to use the results of the model also 
towards strategic and decision-making purposes (e.g. the decisions on 
entering new markets or launch new products), to set the remuneration 
systems of the risk owners, and to develop fruitful forms of collabora-
tion between the OR function and the internal audit.
3.5	
Recent Regulatory Initiatives
Consistently with the overall supervisory focus on monitoring the 
implementation of OR standards, the Basel Committee has recently 
intervened in the field of OR on several fronts.
In the course of 2014, for example, it has reviewed the Principles for 
sound ORM (BCBS 2014).

--- Página 72 ---
64        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
As set out by the new principles, the Committee’s expectations for the 
ORM include: all internationally active banks should implement policies, 
procedures and practices to manage OR commensurate with their size, 
complexity, activities and risk exposure, and seek continuous improve-
ment in these areas as industry practice evolves. In order to enhance OR 
management, the principles provide comprehensive guidance regarding 
the qualitative standards that should be observed to achieve more rigor-
ous and comprehensive ORM (for further detail see Chap. 4).
The Basel Committee has also reviewed the OR capital frame-
work. Following an earlier consultation paper issued in October 2014, 
in March 2016 the Basel Committee proposed a new Standardized 
Measurement Approach (SMA)  for OR (BCBS 2016a), as part of the 
broader objective of balancing simplicity, comparability and risk sensi-
tivity. In addressing a number of weaknesses of the current framework, 
the consultative document focuses on the following key elements:
•	 the SMA will replace the three existing standardized approaches for 
calculating OR capital as well as the AMA and thus significantly sim-
plify the regulatory framework;
•	 the revised methodology combines a financial statement-based meas-
ure of OR—the Business Indicator (BI)—with an individual firm’s 
past operational losses. This results in a risk-sensitive framework, 
which also promotes consistency in the calculation of OR capital 
requirements across banks and jurisdictions;
•	 the option of using an internal model-based approach for measuring 
OR—the AMA—has been removed from the OR framework. The 
Committee believes that modelling of OR for regulatory capital pur-
poses is unduly complex and that the AMA has resulted in excessive 
variability in risk-weighted assets and insufficient levels of capital for 
some banks;
•	 the proposed SMA framework shall be applied to internationally 
active banks on a consolidated basis. Supervisors will decide on the 
matter of application of such framework to non-internationally active 
institutions.
This proposal of reviewing the OR capital framework has inevita-
bly generated second thoughts on Pillar 3 disclosure requirements,

--- Página 73 ---
3 The Regulatory Framework        65
and can be seen in the Consultative Document issued by the Basel 
Committee (BCBS 2016b), which takes into account the changes 
to the OR framework by proposing three new disclosure templates. 
Such templates should provide users quantitative data on historical 
OR losses, the drivers of a bank’s OR charge under the SMA and 
details of a bank’s incurred losses from ORs over the previous 3 
years, respectively. In addition, further qualitative data on a bank’s 
ORM framework would be obtained by the introduction of a new 
table.
3.6	
Conclusions
Over the years the increasing importance of the OR has led the supervi-
sory authorities to include such risk within the international capital ade-
quacy framework (Basel 2 and Basel 3), providing alternative methods 
for calculating related own funds requirements. This regulatory initia-
tive has marked an important step for the ORM, as it has given for the 
first time the impetus to the enhancement of the control of the bank’s 
OR exposure. A convergence in terms of definition, scope and sourcing 
of OR has also been attained, with other positive impacts on the ORM 
practices.
However, the regulatory process is not yet complete: a further step 
towards completing the post-crisis reforms is needed. The current 
changing context has in fact underlined the need of a more rigorous and 
comprehensive ORM. To this end, a revision of the capital framework 
has also been proposed by the Basel Committee, aimed to overcome a 
number of weaknesses in the current rules and to ensure a better bal-
ance between simplicity, comparability and risk sensitivity.
Note
1.	 The European Banking Authority (EBA) must develop draft-implement-
ing technical standards to determine the conditions of application of the 
principles for business line mapping and submit those standards to the 
European Commission by 31 December 2017.

--- Página 74 ---
66        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
References
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2006. Basel II: 
International convergence of capital measurement and capital standards: A 
revised framework, Comprehensive version, June.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2011. Basel III: A 
global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems, 
revised version, June.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2013. Basel III: The 
liquidity coverage ratio and liquidity risk monitoring tools, January.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2014. Review of the 
principles for the sound management of operational risk, October.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2016a. Standardised 
measurement approach for operational risk—Consultative document, 
March.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2016b. Pillar 3 disclo-
sure requirements—consolidated and enhanced framework—Consultative 
document, March.
EBA (European Banking Authority). 2013. Final draft regulatory techni-
cal standards on the conditions for assessing the materiality of extensions 
and changes of internal approaches when calculating own funds require-
ments for credit and operational risk in accordance with Articles 143(5) and 
312(4)(b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (Capital Requirements 
Regulation—CRR), December.
EBA (European Banking Authority). 2015. Final draft regulatory technical 
standards on the specification of the assessment methodology under which 
competent authorities permit institutions to use Advanced Measurement 
Approaches (AMA) for operational risk in accordance with Article 312 of 
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, June.
Krosner, S. 2008. Risk management and Basel II, speech at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, AMA Conference, Boston, May 14.

--- Página 75 ---
4.1	
Introduction
The centrality of the link between operational risk management and 
governance is underlined by the several cases of financial collapses, in 
which losses are mainly connected with supervisory and operational 
failure on behalf of the top management. Likewise, a sound operational 
risk management requires a focus on the organizational structure, in 
response to the need of combining measurement systems with efficient 
and adequate control units for managing operational risk.
In this chapter we analyse the organizational and governance issues 
related to the measurement and control of operational risk, focusing 
on the key functions involved (e.g., committee, OR functions), on the 
interrelationship between the OR function and other functions (inter-
nal audit and compliance) as well as on the role of reporting and infor-
mation technology.
4
Operational Risk Management: 
Organizational and Governance Issues
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks,  
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_4
67

--- Página 76 ---
68        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
4.2	
An Overview of the Key Functions 
Involved in the ORM
Establishing a sound OR management entails the need for an in-depth 
analysis of multiple business processes and their components (sub-pro-
cesses, phases and activities, according to an order of greater detail1). 
Such need is a clear sign of the strong influences exerted by OR on 
the organizational structure. On the other hand, it is also true that this 
structure—which is a key element of corporate defence strategies (Lyons 
2006) and is often neglected in favour of the more commonly studied 
quantification issues—is crucial for healthy business management, as 
evidenced by many recent scandals arisen because of unclear reporting 
lines and ambiguous formalization of tasks and responsibilities.
The centrality of the link between OR and corporate governance is 
further highlighted by the recurrent cases of financial collapses reported 
in the “Facts on International Relations and Security Trends” (FIRST) 
database on operational loss events. In fact, the database identifies up 
to 62 crisis cases (Cagan 2006) in which losses that had mainly been 
associated to internal fraud were specifically linked to supervisory and 
operational failure on behalf of the board of directors and senior man-
agement. Accordingly, the focus on organization arises in response to 
the need of combining measurement systems with efficient and ade-
quate control units for managing OR.
Traditionally, Internal Audit (IA) has coincided with the opera-
tional risk function, in that IA—together with the individual busi-
ness areas acting as local and decentralized control units—has 
usually been the unit responsible for OR control and mitigation. 
Accordingly, IA can be compared to a sort of “ancestor” of OR func-
tion. Indeed, in many banks IA has taken on the leading role dur-
ing the early stages of OR projects: the process of self-assessment 
of the internal control system facilitates the development of action 
plans and highlights right from the preliminary planning stage a 
multifunctional approach that assigns the direct responsibility of OR 
management to IA (Birindelli and Ferretti 2009).

--- Página 77 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        69
Over time, the substantial overlap between IA and the OR function 
has been replaced by a clear separation of responsibilities and tasks, 
eventually leading to the independence of the two functions. However, 
the tendency to create a specifically dedicated OR unit featuring organi-
zational collocation and operational levels mainly tailored around the 
size of the bank cannot be intended as an attempt to ignore the activ-
ity performed by IA: as we shall see, there are many synergies/forms of 
cooperation between IA and the OR function, such as the connections 
between control and ORs. Among these connections, the most evident 
and easy to understand, and closely interrelated, can be summarized as 
follows:
•	 ORs may reside in the weaknesses of the internal control system, 
considered as a whole or in its various components, including those 
components designed to safeguard other risks;
•	 exposure to ORs depends, among others, on the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the controls;
•	 controls are one of the management instruments and, as such, create 
value in the process of OR management;
•	 quality of control strategies is a key factor to address the intermediary 
towards more sophisticated and risk-sensitive methods of capital cal-
culation;
•	 internal audit has extensive knowledge about OR factors (processes, 
Information Technology, human resources, etc.); in particular, it con-
trols the reliability of the information systems—including automatic 
data processing systems—at the origins of technological risk;
•	 the qualitative component of the quantification method of capital 
(see Chap. 3) also includes a study on the activation of control proce-
dures added to the existing ones (Miranda 2000).
In the guidelines for proper OR management, a broad description 
is dedicated to both IA and OR function, supported by the governing 
bodies.
Indeed, the roles of the different actors involved in the OR projects 
are extensively discussed by the BCBS in the “Review of the Principles 
for the Sound Management of Operational Risk” (BCBS 2014). Among

--- Página 78 ---
70        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
the tasks of the board of directors, the Basel Committee lists: approval 
and periodic review of the OR management system; approval of a gov-
ernance structure with clearly defined responsibilities, in respect of the 
separation between the control and operational functions, in order to 
avoid conflicts of interest; and promotion (in conjunction with senior 
management) of an organizational culture giving maximum emphasis to 
effective risk management. The principles set out by the board of direc-
tors should be translated into policies, processes and systems for the 
various operating units of the bank. This task is assigned to senior man-
agement, which is also responsible for other duties, such as establishing 
clear hierarchical lines of authority and processes to monitor OR expo-
sure.
The principles establishing precise responsibilities and duties of the 
board of directors and senior management can be summarized as fol-
lows (BCBS 2014):
•	 The board of directors and senior management should establish 
a corporate culture2 that is guided by strong risk management and 
that is present throughout the whole organization (Principle 1: 
Operational risk culture).
•	 The board of directors should establish, approve and periodically 
review the framework for operational risk management and should 
supervise senior management to ensure that the policies, pro-
cesses and systems are implemented effectively at all decision levels 
(Principle 3: Board of directors).
•	 The board of directors should approve and review a risk appetite and 
tolerance statement for operational risk (Principle 4: Operational risk 
appetite and tolerance).
•	 Senior management should develop—for approval by the board of 
directors—a clear, effective and robust governance structure with 
well-defined, transparent and consistent lines of responsibility. Senior 
management is responsible for consistently implementing and main-
taining policies, processes and systems throughout the organization, 
which are designed to manage operational risk in all the bank’s mate-
rial products, activities, processes and systems consistent with risk 
appetite and tolerance (Principle 5: Senior management).

--- Página 79 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        71
•	 Senior management should ensure the identification and assessment 
of the operational risk inherent in all material products, activities, 
processes and systems, in order to guarantee that the inherent risks 
and incentives are well understood (Principle 6: Risk identification 
and assessment).
•	 Senior management should ensure that there is an approval process 
for all the new products, activities, processes and systems that fully 
assess operational risk (Principle 7: Change management).
•	 Senior management should implement a process designed to regu-
larly monitor operational risk profiles and material exposures to 
losses. Appropriate reporting mechanisms supporting proactive man-
agement of operational risk should be in place at the board, senior 
management, and business line levels (Principle 8: Monitoring and 
reporting).
The principal findings and recommendations relative to the principles 
concerning the activity of the governing bodies are shown in Box 4.1 
(BCBS 2014).
Additionally, the Basel Committee envisages a process of independ-
ent review and challenge of the bank’s operational risk management 
controls, processes and systems (this is the third line of defence3). Those 
who carry out such reviews must be competent and appropriately 
trained. Moreover, to ensure that the staff responsible for the control is 
independent, it must not be involved in the development, implementa-
tion and operation of the framework. This review may be done by the 
audit or by the staff independent of the process or system under review, 
but it may also involve suitably qualified external parties. In particular, 
internal audit should perform an independent review, so as to verify 
that the framework has been implemented as intended, is functioning 
effectively, meets not only the board-approved policies and procedures 
but also organizational needs and supervisory expectations. If audit 
activities are outsourced, senior management should consider the appro-
priateness of relying on an outsourced audit function as third line of 
defence.
The major principles for a sound management of OR are thus consti-
tuted by responsibility/culture diffused at the level of business unit, by

--- Página 80 ---
72        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
constant reviewing, continuous monitoring of risk exposure, and strong 
involvement of the governing bodies.
Box 4.1—Principles for the activity of the governing bodies: find-
ings and recommendations from the BCBS (2014)
Findings
✓ A strong operational risk management culture has been implemented 
by the board of directors and the senior management of most banks.
✓ Forms of operational risk training, such as online modules, have been 
established in most banks. Nevertheless, many banks plan to enhance 
existing operational risk training.
✓ According to most banks, the board of directors has been active in 
supervising the control environments of the bank.
✓ According to most banks, the board of directors or a subcommittee (i.e. 
the risk or audit committee) was responsible for regularly reviewing 
and approving the Operational Risk Management Framework (ORMF).
✓ In some banks an operational risk appetite and tolerance statement is 
reviewed regularly and approved by the board of directors or by a del-
egated authority, while in other banks it is under development.
✓ Almost all banks have an independent and dedicated Corporate 
Operational Risk Function (CORF) to oversee the implementation of the 
bank’s ORMF and also an internal audit group that has the responsibil-
ity of the third line of defence.
✓ The CORF is generally responsible for reporting all operational risk-
related matters to the appropriate senior management/committees.
✓ Specific policies (viz. loss of data collection, risk and control self-assess-
ment, key risk indicators, loss modelling, scenario analysis, etc.) that 
support the ORMF are developed by senior management and approved 
by the board of directors in most banks. In some banks, these policies 
are approved by the risk committee or operational risk committee of 
the board.
✓ There are some forms of coordination between the CORF and other risk 
management functions. There is room for improvement in the coordi-
nation activities. A noteworthy practice is the establishment of a regu-
lar meeting between the operational risk management function and 
other risk management functions to discuss issues and events, including 
boundary losses.
✓ In most banks, senior management has established an operational risk 
committee. It directs and coordinates the implementation of the ORMF.
✓ Risk and control assessments within the change management process 
for new products and initiatives are in a fully implemented stage in 
only about two-thirds of the banks.

--- Página 81 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        73
✓ Many banks are fully compliant with the principle (n.8) related to reg-
ular monitoring and appropriate reporting, but some banks are plan-
ning to improve existing operational risk reporting, to ensure that the 
information is useful, concise and actionable.
Recommendations
Banks are encouraged to:
Board of directors
i.	 ensure that the scope of internal audit concern full implementation 
and execution of the ORMF, and not be limited to the operational risk 
capital model;
ii.	 ensure that the scope of internal audit include a review of the effec-
tive implementation and execution of the ORMF at the business unit 
or legal entity levels, in order to complement the overall audit of the 
ORMF; and
iii.	consider the possibility of periodically engaging in a benchmarking 
analysis of the bank’s ORMF, with the assistance of independent exter-
nal advisors, as part of the bank’s regular assessment of ORMF design 
and effectiveness.
Senior management
i.	 ensure that the ORMF be approved by the board of directors or by a 
board committee;
ii.	 ensure that the CORF have sufficient stature, resources and infrastruc-
tures, in relation to other risk management functions, so as to imple-
ment the ORMF;
iii.	ensure that an operational risk culture be established;
iv.	 ensure that an effective independent challenge be applied by the sec-
ond line of defence; and
v.	 further develop and implement operational risk training and aware-
ness programmes.
The same bodies appear in the part of EBA (2015) dealing with the gov-
ernance for the AMA institutions. In particular, to evaluate compliance 
with the requirements mentioned in Articles 74 and 85 of Directive 
2013/36/EU and in Article 321(1), points (b) and (c) of Regulation 
(EU) No 575/2013, controls shall be conducted by the compe-
tent authorities on the work of the management body4 and of senior

--- Página 82 ---
74        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
management.5 For example, controls will assess whether the operational 
risk management process is appropriate and effective: in this respect, 
the competent authorities shall verify that the institution’s management 
body discusses and approves the governance of operational risk, the 
operational risk management process, the operational risk measurement 
system, the operational risk tolerance6 and the operational risk tolerance 
statement.7 Moreover, the competent authorities shall verify that senior 
management play an active role, specifically that:
•	 it be responsible for implementing operational risk governance and a 
management framework approved by the management body and that 
it actually implement them effectively;
•	 it receive appointment from the management body to develop poli-
cies, processes and procedures for the management of operational risk 
and that it actually implement them effectively.
There is then a set of requirements to be respected, so that the opera-
tional risk management function be independent from the business 
units of the institution, as follows:
•	 acceptance of tasks (design, development, implementation, mainte-
nance and oversight of the operational risk management process and 
of the operational risk measurement system; analysis of the opera-
tional risk associated with the introduction and development of new 
products, markets, lines of business, processes, systems; oversight of 
business activities that may give rise to an operational risk exposure 
that could breach the institution’s risk tolerance), to be performed 
separately from the institution’s business lines;
•	 appropriate commitment received by the management body and the 
senior management;
•	 absence of responsibilities for the audit function.
Also the head of the operational risk management function should 
satisfy precise requisites: adequate experience on operational risk; regu-
lar contact with the management body and its committees; independ-
ence from the operational units; active involvement in the definition of

--- Página 83 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        75
the operational risk tolerance and of the strategies for its management 
and mitigation; assignment of a budget for the operational risk man-
agement function by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) or by a sponsoring 
member of the management body in its supervisory capacity and not 
by a business unit or executive function. Finally, there shall be a control 
over an institution’s reporting of its operational risk profile and of the 
management of operational risk: to this purpose, it will be necessary to 
check that reporting is regular, timely and sufficient and that it includes 
all the material aspects of operational risk management and measure-
ment (see Sect. 4.5).
The information contained in the above-mentioned documents 
allows specifying the roles and responsibilities of the organizational 
structures and support units involved in the management of OR, pri-
marily the OR function. This function is directly responsible for the 
OR management/control system, for the design and implementation 
of the relevant framework, for the development of the processes of OR 
identification, assessment/measurement, constant control and risk miti-
gation. Specific competencies can be identified in the field of risk trans-
fer, measurement approaches, capital absorption calculation, allocation 
of economic capital, handling of change management by means of staff 
training programmes, specialized advice to decentralized units and loss 
identification. This latter requires the appointment of a person in charge 
as well as a Loss Data Collection (LDC)  manager (at both group and 
individual company level), who should be distinct figures in accord-
ance with the principle of functional contraposition between those who 
manage and those who control the census activities. The organizational 
structure of LDC should also include the support of subjects respon-
sible for the census of losses by drawing from its own information 
archives.
Although some choices are not yet definitive, the trend is towards 
the creation of multiple levels of OR function operations signalling a 
horizontal type of expansion: the corporate-level structure is repeated 
in both business and service units, or it is replaced, still in the decen-
tralized units, by one or more people in charge. Whatever the solu-
tion adopted in the decentralized structures, depending mainly on 
their size and risk exposure, there is a local management involvement

--- Página 84 ---
76        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
for an integrated and transversal approach to OR, in accordance with 
the very nature of risk. Indeed, if a centralized OR function is crucial 
for the joint management of OR, the “bottom-up” reports and propos-
als allow overcoming the danger of losing the capacity of analysis on 
risks that for their very nature are related to the activities of the busi-
ness units (Brienza and Gianturco 2005). Integration between the two 
(top-down and bottom-up) approaches increases the quality of the 
information created, helps to prepare mitigation actions, and improves 
the efficacy of the evaluation tools. On the other hand, the assignment 
of OR ownership to decentralized units implies an alignment between 
OR ownership, profit centres, and those taking the risk. It also involves 
forming a hypothesis consistent with standardized approach mapping: 
“In the standardized approach of Operational risk capital charge, Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision used the mapping principle based 
on business lines, which supports the assumption that the business lines 
own operational risk and are responsible for day to day management” 
(Pandey 2008).
4.3	
Responsibilities and Tasks of Functions 
Dedicated to Measuring and Controlling 
Operational Risks
The allocation of roles in the multi-level OR management model 
implies the involvement of many banking structures. What follows is an 
indication of their principal responsibilities, moving from the OR com-
mittee to the OR functions (central and local).
4.3.1	 The OR Committee
The OR committee can be an enactment of the risk committee: in such 
case the risk committee is divided into multiple specialist committees 
that are linked to the main types of bank risk and are diversified accord-
ing to their fields of competency. One of the main tasks of the OR com-
mittee is to examine the outcomes of risk analyses and to put forward

--- Página 85 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        77
proposals for mitigation (and later control the actions performed), 
interventions on the processes, and assessment of insurance coverage. 
The OR committee appears as a body of confrontation and sharing 
of ideas and proposals, with the representation of many competencies 
responsible for the management of the OR according to an aggregated 
vision. Basically, the OR committee plays a preliminary role, and has 
advisory and proposal-making functions.
The choice of establishing this committee corresponds to the needs 
of those who are responsible for the company functions involved in OR 
management to share moments of confrontation. The OR committee is 
the centre in which the functions responsible for the management of the 
risks related to their processes share an analysis of the risk profile: the OR 
functions play the role of “facilitators” (Bazzarello and Maucci 2009).
The mission of the OR committee is to support the company man-
agers (or committees, like the risk committee), since it is, in general, 
responsible for:
•	 proposing interventions on the risks evidenced by the OR functions 
that have experienced operational events or that have an exposure to 
the ORs;
•	 recommending the insurance strategies and policies of the group, 
including renewals, limits and deductibles;
•	 reporting the information relative to the insurance policies signed 
within the group and to the insurance indemnities;
•	 analysing the reports on the operational risks;
•	 proposing control procedures and limits of operational risk-taking;
•	 monitoring the actions of risk mitigation.
Where required by the organizational complexity, it is advisable to set 
up a system of OR committees:
•	 a central committee (within the parent company) performing the 
functions of group committee of operational risks;
•	 a series of local committees in the main divisions/companies of the 
group.

--- Página 86 ---
78        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
This system will make it possible to obtain benefits in terms of econo-
mies of scope, as in the case of specialization of the local OR functions 
(see Sect. 4.3.3).
The role of the functions represented in the local committee does not 
differ from that of the members of the group committee. Instead, the 
local committee operates in a different perspective:
•	 the immediate objective is to support the company managers 
through both the analysis of the risk profile relative to the compe-
tence activities and the proposal of suitable mitigation actions, also in 
compliance with the decisions of the central OR committee;
•	 the mediated objective is to contribute in this way to the analysis and 
mitigation of the operational risk connected to the other segments of 
activities and to the group as a whole (Bazzarello and Maucci 2009).
The flow of information from the local committees to the central com-
mittee and vice versa guarantees the achievement of such objectives. The 
regulations inside the banking groups should provide that the local OR 
functions bring the proposals/analyses of the local committees to the 
attention of the central committee through the central OR function. It 
is the task of the latter to communicate the decisions of the OR group 
committee to the local OR functions so that these decisions can be dis-
cussed and shared by the local committees. The process is facilitated by 
the widespread participation of the main local operational risk managers 
to the OR group committee.
4.3.2	 Central OR Function
The group OR function, also called central OR function, reports to 
the OR group committee. The function may be structured within the 
risk management area of the parent company and plays both a guid-
ing and a coordinating role, which means that it mainly ensures con-
sistency to the entire operational risk management framework. To this 
end, the central function performs analyses of group value, it defines 
tools and methodologies for the identification, assessment, control and

--- Página 87 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        79
mitigation of the OR (with application to all the group companies), it 
is responsible for the measurement of the risks and of the related capital 
requirement at the consolidated level, and also of the internal capital for 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) purposes.
Furthermore, the central function may establish tolerance thresholds 
to the OR for the various business units, it may (or may not) provide 
support in the choice of insurance coverage, and may contribute to the 
estimation of risky exposure in case the group enters new sectors of the 
market and/or develops new products. Basically, the OR function in the 
parent company stands out for its peculiar responsibilities in terms of 
guidance and coordination, typical of the central functions and aimed 
at ensuring an efficient application of the operational risk manage-
ment framework, defined at group level, by the companies of the group. 
When carrying out its activities, the central OR function coordinates 
with the OR functions/control units in the group’s banks: these latter 
can be articulated at multiple levels (company or local, decentralized 
and specialized) (see Sect. 4.3.3).
Therefore, the central OR function establishes the guidelines and 
plays a role of support and control in relation to the OR functions pre-
sent in the group’s companies. The ultimate goal is to verify the imple-
mentation of the procedures and methods for OR evaluation, and thus 
the central OR function receives relevant information and reports from 
the local OR functions in order to perform such evaluation (Bazzarello 
and Maucci 2009).
In particular, the central OR function is responsible for:
•	 defining common standards for all the group’s companies about the 
control of operational risks;
•	 developing models to measure operational risk;
•	 measuring operational risk capital at group level;
•	 checking that the data of operational loss are regularly collected and 
stored in the OR database of the group;
•	 controlling exposure to the operational risks of the parent company 
and of the group with the support of the OR company functions, 
monitoring risk indicators and regularly performing scenario ­analyses;

--- Página 88 ---
80        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 proposing to the parent company OR committee risk thresholds for 
both the parent company and the group, with the support of the OR 
company functions;
•	 creating a regular flow of information towards the parent company 
on the exposure of the group to operational risks, with the support of 
the OR company functions;
•	 proposing to the parent company’s OR committee mitigation actions 
against the exposure to operational risks, with the support of the 
company’s OR functions;
•	 advising on handbooks related to OR management drafted by the 
group’s companies before they are submitted to the approval of the 
company’s board of directors;
•	 suggesting the parent company’s OR committee insurance cover-
age to mitigate the exposure to operational risks and supporting the 
group’s companies in the definition of the types of coverage;
•	 assessing and proposing coverage, in forms other than insurance, to 
mitigate OR exposure;
•	 creating relations with the supervisory authorities and the relevant 
international institutions on issues of measurement and control of 
operational risks;
•	 providing regular training on operational risks to the OR functions 
of the group companies;
•	 defining the functional requirements of the application package 
implementation at group level to support operational risk control.
4.3.3	 Corporate OR Function
An efficient management system of operational risk requires the setting 
up of an OR function in each company of the group (local OR func-
tion). The aim is to obtain an appropriate extension of the application 
perimeter of the operational risk management framework. The risk gov-
ernance system should also envisage functional reporting of these local 
functions to the central OR function.

--- Página 89 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        81
Within the framework of a markedly divisional business model, the 
corporate structures focus their activities on a specific business (e.g. 
retail, corporate, investment banking, leasing, consumer finance, asset 
management, etc.), or service (information technology, back office, 
logistics, etc.). Therefore, the divisional model facilitates the develop-
ment of specific skills on behalf of the local OR function. This allows 
an effective adaptation of the operational risk management framework 
related to ‘local requirements’, in their different dimensions: busi-
ness types, geographical features like the local regulatory peculiarities, 
dimensional scale and so on. Functional reporting of the local OR func-
tion to the central OR function ensures a consistent application of the 
framework within the group.
The set of OR functions thus constitutes a specialized network that 
ensures effective risk monitoring and a timely flow of information to 
the company managers, both local and central. In particular, each OR 
function, including that of the parent company for its role of opera-
tional risk manager of the ‘Holding Bank’, is responsible for the follow-
ing activities (Bazzarello and Maucci 2009):
•	 controlling exposure to the operational risks of the company, in com-
pliance with the standards and procedures defined by the group’s pol-
icies on OR management;
•	 verifying that the operational loss data are regularly recorded in the 
OR database of the group;
•	 periodically providing the data on operational risks (internal losses, 
risk indicators, scenario analysis, produced reports and action plans) 
to the central OR function;
•	 proposing processes, tools and models for the control of operational 
risks to the respective OR committee and to the central OR function;
•	 checking compliance with the risk limits, promptly informing the 
managers, internal audit and the central OR function in the case 
these limits are exceeded;
•	 identifying and collecting the risk indicators, performing the scenario 
analyses and ensuring the quality of the collected data with respect to 
the group standards;

--- Página 90 ---
82        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 collaborating in the analysis of the impact of the operational risks on 
the introduction of new significant products and on the implementa-
tion of significant changes either in the activities carried out or in the 
structure’s organization;
•	 checking that the company is equipped with business continuity 
plans and that these are regularly tested and updated;
•	 offering insurance policies to cover the operational risks faced by the 
company, in collaboration with the central OR function;
•	 proposing plans for operational risk mitigation, including insurance 
coverage, and informing the OR committee of the company (if any), 
the board of directors and the central OR function;
•	 producing regular reports on exposure to the operational risks of the 
company (losses, indicators, scenarios) for the company managers;
•	 providing the company structures with regular training on the con-
trol of operational risks;
•	 keeping relations with the supervisory authorities and with the rel-
evant local institutions on the issues of measurement and control of 
the operational risks.
The company may include OR managers at a more granular level, 
namely at business unit level, with which the local OR function inter-
acts and collaborates. These levels of managers are often identified as the 
OR officers. The tasks performed by these managers allow an OR man-
agement at decentralized level. The most common tasks include the fol-
lowing (Birindelli and Ferretti 2009):
•	 managing of the loss data collection process within the business unit 
(then transmitted to the OR function of one’s company);
•	 constant monitoring of the census of loss data to ensure utmost com-
pleteness;
•	 participating in the assessment process in many respects: preparatory 
meetings with the subjects in charge of evaluation, support the con-
duct of assessment, checking the completeness and consistency of the 
answers, contribution to the examination and interpretation of the 
results, sharing of corrective actions and of the relative priorities in 
relation to the identified risks;

--- Página 91 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        83
•	 adequate and detailed reporting on the business unit’s level of risk 
exposure to managers/persons responsible for the business unit;
•	 disseminating throughout one’s business unit an adequate risk and 
control culture, which should go beyond training on purely techni-
cal issues and aim at sharing objectives of OR management, trans-
mitting a common language and valorising everyone’s contribution 
towards the achievement of the expected results. Such activity of 
raising awareness, which also (and especially) involves the top man-
agers, may combine the issuing of handbooks to specific classroom 
and web-based training sessions, or to more advanced training 
approaches, such as interactive portals;
•	 being involved in the definition and implementation of mitigation 
strategies, i.e. methodological support to the organizational units for 
the implementation of possible actions of mitigation of risky expo-
sure, considering the critical and vulnerable issues detected in one’s 
business unit (e.g. obstacles to the achievement of objectives, areas of 
improvement, control deficiencies, etc.);
•	 systematic updating of the business unit, taking into account the 
development of the OR management framework. In this context, the 
OR managers should provide suggestions for improvement in terms 
of methods, standards, processes and applications;
•	 supporting the risk owners of the main processes, who are required 
to report true and/or estimated risk events due to the action of OR 
factors identified while performing daily activities and relating to the 
processes monitored.
An active operational risk management in the business lines as ‘first 
line of defence’ requires adequate communication between the various 
business lines and the operational risk experts (Milkau 2013).
The OR management organizational model also involves structures, 
transversal to the entire bank—known as the specialized OR officers—
informing about the risks under their own responsibility and suggesting 
risk mitigation actions. Among these OR officers there are the follow-
ing: Physical Safety, Information Safety, Legal Department, Human 
Resources, Logistics, etc.; in other words, those who manage mitigation

--- Página 92 ---
84        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
of the risk related to specialized units, designed to establish a targeted 
action plan for each risk factor.
Therefore, the OR internal governance may include functions/
officers with different operational levels. In particular, we can distin-
guish among the group (or central) OR function, company (or local) 
OR function, decentralized OR officer and specialized OR officer. An 
example of allocation of roles to the four levels identified is included in 
Table 4.1 (Metelli 2005).
Table 4.2 summarizes the main tasks and responsibilities of the gov-
erning bodies and of the OR function, as well as the roles of the chief 
risk officer and of the OR committee—if present, otherwise of the risk/
audit committee (Prokopenko and Bondarenko 2012).
4.4	
Interrelationships Between the OR 
Function and Other Functions
The company functions with which the OR function relates can be clas-
sified as control functions, support functions and business functions.
The control functions are the central management functions that 
have control responsibilities. The most important for our purposes are 
internal audit and compliance (see Sect. 4.4.1). The control functions 
are different from the support and business functions since they do not 
manage the operational risks directly.
The support functions are those that provide services to the busi-
ness and control functions. Some are central management functions, 
present at local level; others are functions centralized in specific com-
panies which typically provide centralized information, administration 
and logistic services (“service companies”). The former include the legal 
function, the human resources function, the organization function and 
the safety function. The relationship between the OR function and the 
business continuity function deserves to be further studied, owing to 
the role of the latter in the context of mitigation of the operational risks 
(see below).

--- Página 93 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        85
Table 4.1  Tasks of OR functions/officers (Metelli 2005)
Risk Management in the 
parent company
Group OR Function
Implements the methods 
for detecting, assess-
ing, mitigating and 
controlling the ORs to 
be applied to the group 
companies, ensuring 
efficacy and consistency 
with the strategies and 
policies approved by 
the board of directors. 
At group level, super-
vises loss detection 
and risk measurement, 
and generates flow 
of information useful 
both inside and outside 
the group. Proposes 
modes of intervention 
for monitoring and 
mitigating the ORs. 
Acts as coordinator 
with company OR func-
tions, decentralized OR 
officers and specialized 
OR officers.
Group Company
Company OR function
Is the supervisor and 
the person responsible 
for the management 
process of the ORs 
within the company 
and checks that it is 
working properly. In 
the fulfilment of their 
activities, coordinates 
with the group's OR 
function and with 
the decentralized OR 
functions within the 
company. Participates 
in the OR committee.
(continued)

--- Página 94 ---
86        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Business Units
Decentralized OR Officer/
Process risk owner
Provides operational 
supervision of the OR 
management process 
within the business 
unit, by coordinating 
and supporting the risk 
owners of the main 
processes. Supports the 
monitoring process of 
the risks and participates 
in the definition and 
implementation of the 
mitigation strategies. 
Coordinates with the 
company OR function in 
executing its functions.
The risk owner’s task is 
to recognize and notify 
harmful events, either 
actual or potential, 
related to OR factors 
identified in the pro-
cesses monitored directly 
during the daily activi-
ties. Participates in the 
execution of the mitiga-
tion interventions, and 
coordinates with the 
decentralized OR Officer 
for his/her activities.
Security, Information 
Security, Complaints, 
Human Resources, 
Legal, and Logistics 
Department
Specialized OR Officer
Provides operational 
supervision of the 
performance of the OR 
management process 
within its specialized 
unit.
Supports the risk 
monitoring process and 
participates in the defi-
nition and implementa-
tion of the mitigation 
strategies. Coordinates 
with the company's OR 
function in the execu-
tion of their functions.
Table 4.1  (continued)

--- Página 95 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        87
Table 4.2  OR Governance internal structure (Prokopenko and Bondarenko 2012)
Element
Tasks and responsibilities
Supervisory board
Approves and periodically reviews the opera-
tional risk management strategy;
Receives reports on OR exposure against risk 
appetite;
Is aware of major ORs and significant losses;
Ensures that the management board carries 
out its responsibilities
Management board
Is responsible for implementing the risk man-
agement strategy;
Approves and periodically reviews the opera-
tional risk framework;
Ensures that the staff in organization is aware 
of its role in OR management;
Ensures that appropriate action is taken in 
response to OR exposures exceeding the 
appetite;
Launches and manages projects for opera-
tional risk management (including budget-
ing, resourcing and awareness campaign)
CRO (often a board member)
Is responsible for implementing the OR frame-
work;
Provides risk leadership, vision and direction;
Develops a supporting infrastructure;
Monitors the operational risk project;
Manages internal OR knowledge;
Oversees/controls OR management
OR function
Implements the OR management framework;
Creates management tools (risk policy, moni-
toring, assessment, systems, methods);
Issues guidelines and methods for OR manage-
ment;
Identifies, assesses and analyses key risks;
Monitors risk exposures against risk appetites
(Operational) Risk/Audit 
­committee
Addresses high-level technical issues;
Monitors implementation of risk policy and 
strategy;
Takes measures to improve quality of risk 
management;
Reviews the results of the risk assessments and 
makes recommendations on OR matters

--- Página 96 ---
88        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Finally, the business functions process and distribute products and ser-
vices to customers using the services provided by the support functions.
The interdependencies and complementarities that can be identified 
between the OR function and other functions require a formalization 
of duties through internal rules, group regulations or other modalities. 
This formalization serves to delimit the border of their responsibilities 
and to avoid the possible overlap of roles.
In addition to the functions that will be discussed below (see 
Sect. 4.4.1), the main functions involved in the management of OR are 
listed below:
•	 Risk Management (RM) is involved especially in the development 
of calculation methods, with subsequent control by the auditors 
with regard to the procedural aspects and to the measuring tools. 
RM is basically called to handle the quantitative component of the 
OR management framework, and especially the LDC and quantita-
tive processing of risk self-assessment findings. The border between 
the RM and the OR function must not, however, be interpreted as 
a clear separation between the two: the former, in fact, is often a sec-
ond-level control function on market, credit and operational risks. 
Indeed, the structure responsible for OR management is often part of 
the RM.
•	 Organization, in the role of mitigation manager, contributes to re-
engineering the business processes with the objective of reducing risk 
exposure and implementing/consolidating preventive controls which 
focus on the processes themselves. Accordingly, being the key actor 
within the formalization of the work processes, the organization 
defines and updates such processes with the aim of monitoring the 
risks.
•	 Legal function is actively involved in the identification and assess-
ment of the legal risk embedded in the OR; it also monitors relevant 
indicators such as customer complaints, insurance compensations 
and revocatory actions.8
•	 Planning and Control: contributes especially to the definition of the 
budget objectives and of the long-term plan. In so doing, it assesses 
OR events due to bank policies and strategies, takes into account

--- Página 97 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        89
information and guidelines coming from other functions and govern-
ing bodies, in order to integrate the plans with the capital plan dur-
ing the internal capital adequacy assessment process.
The regulatory authorities request that the financial institutions define a 
business continuity plan aimed at ensuring continuity of the company’s 
operations in the case of service interruption.9 The plan must enable the 
financial institutions to maintain and restore operations in the occur-
rence of unpredictable events that may impact on business continuity. 
Within the framework of the OR management, the business continuity 
plans thus constitute one of the three pillars for OR management, along-
side the measures for revision of the operational processes and of the 
control systems and risk-outsourcing policies (e.g. insurance coverage).
Verifying that the institutions have in place adequate and updated 
plans for operational continuity falls within the specific tasks of the OR 
function. Therefore, the business continuity function is a strategic part-
ner for the OR function towards the actual implementation of the oper-
ational risk management system.
Each institution must define a business continuity plan based on 
the risk exposure of its activities, by applying technical analyses such 
as business impact analysis, analysis of business continuity require-
ments and risk assessment. In this process it is fundamental to identify 
the resources and functions that must be reactivated in case of service 
failure. Hence, the business impact analysis performed by the business 
continuity function represents an extremely relevant step in the phase of 
definition of the business continuity plan. The OR function is, in turn, 
a strategic partner of the business continuity function to integrate the 
information useful to the business impact analysis.
4.4.1	 Interrelatedness Between OR Function 
and Internal Control System
The performance of the internal control system is expressed in terms of 
adequacy and compliance; therefore, the internal controls are assessed 
for their effectiveness (independent of their application) as well as for 
their correct implementation (Gusmeroli and Bonolo 2009).

--- Página 98 ---
90        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
The recognition of adequacy is directly linked to the type of control, 
i.e. to the capability of the control to monitor risk effectively/efficiently. 
The main factors relevant for this evaluation include organizational 
adequacy of the structure in charge of the control, the type of control 
(automatic or manual; preventive or final), the frequency with which 
it is performed, and its traceability (intended as accountability). As a 
general rule, the adequacy of controls is then assessed by comparing the 
existing controls with the so-called virtuous/benchmark controls, which 
are intended as effective controls, which can either (or not) be foreseen 
by the institute and which minimize the potential risk to a minimum 
or acceptable level. Conversely, the assessment on compliance is drawn 
from direct establishment of the person who has made this control (the 
internal subject responsible for performing it or not).
The methodological approach thus allows to start from a “poten-
tial” risk, i.e. “gross” of controls (independent of the effectiveness of the 
existing controls), and end with a “residual” risk, i.e. “net” of controls. 
Residual risk expresses the qualitative assessment of the risk to which 
the bank is exposed, keeping into account the existing controls. Hence 
the evaluation of residual risk is achieved through a self-risk assessment 
process, which largely involves those who are responsible for the pro-
cesses examined from time to time.
This approach, however, needs to be aligned with the company’s evo-
lution through the addition of dynamic components that are capable of 
capturing the trend of the risk profiles over time. Basically, the elements 
of dynamism can be identified as (i) performance indicators or indica-
tors of possible anomalies (KRI—key risk indicators), (ii) compliance 
control outcomes (checklist of controls/compliance testing), and (iii) 
self-assessment questionnaires (Gusmeroli and Bonolo 2009). In detail:
1.	KRIs allow to observe the dynamics of risk over time. These indi-
cators thus enter the evaluation process of residual risk and allow 
reducing the typical subjectivity of qualitative assessment, since the 
residual risk is also obtained—thanks to the KRIs—on the basis of 
objective/empirical indicators. KRIs can thus be used as qualitative 
correctors of residual risk, showing a plus or minus of the residual

--- Página 99 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        91
risk on the basis of variation of their value during a given period of 
time;
2.	checklists are a key information component that allows one to verify 
that the controls are adequate and implemented: the audit’s check-
list provides feedback on the actual application of the control mecha-
nisms;
3.	finally, questionnaires allow to engage the process owners on a regular 
basis and enquire on whether the initial findings are still current and 
on whether there have been any organizational/operational changes 
that may have affected the previously identified and assessed risks. 
Moreover, for each risk/process detected in a specific operational area, 
the experts must do a new estimate for the expected loss, in terms of 
frequency (e.g. frequency of the event over the year) and severity (e.g. 
average amount of loss per unit). Self-assessment of the risk through 
the opinions of experts is therefore a useful tool to test the evalua-
tions conducted in the preliminary phase.
Hereon, the discussion on the relationship between OR and the 
internal control system will focus on the interrelatedness between the 
OR function and internal audit, and then move to the relationship with 
the compliance function.
Relationship Between the OR Function and Internal Audit
Internal audit is another actor within the operational risk governance; 
its role is divided into the following phases (Fernandez-Laviada 2007):
•	 Operational risk identification
•	 Operational risk assessment (Qualitative evaluation and Quantitative 
evaluation)
•	 Operational risk mitigation
•	 Monitoring and reporting operational risk.
In particular, internal audit participates in the OR management pro-
cess, by contributing on several fronts (Bazzarello and Maucci 2009; 
Birindelli and Ferretti 2009); namely, it:

--- Página 100 ---
92        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 checks the quality of business processes and operational and com-
puter-based procedures;
•	 assesses the adequacy of internal controls both at the level of business 
lines and of the support units and controls them on the basis of the 
results of loss data collection;
•	 may cooperate with the organizational structures responsible for 
the design, development, implementation and maintenance of the 
operational risk control system and of its process of self-evaluation, 
although the responsibility for developing a system for the opera-
tional risk control remains exclusively bestowed on the competent 
organizational structures;
•	 judges the effectiveness of both the internal control system and any 
corrective actions to reduce risk exposure. When assessing the ade-
quacy of the OR control system, internal audit is responsible for 
reviewing the functionality and effectiveness of the system and its 
conformity with the regulatory requirements;
•	 intervenes directly on one of the events causing operating losses 
(internal fraud), in its role of controller of ethical conduct, especially 
that of employees;
•	 performs periodic checks on the quality, completeness and integrity 
of the elements of the measuring system (including assessments on 
the adequacy of the internal validation process and on the use test), 
despite not being actively involved in measuring OR;
•	 is, lastly, a reference point for the OR function; in fact, the OR 
function may ask the auditor to analyse, measure and assess the 
operational risks. In particular, audit reports are a useful source of 
information for identifying operational risks in the processes that 
must be controlled by OR indicators or be assessed by scenario 
analysis. Internal audit’s suggestions on how to compensate for the 
deficiencies of the processes can be the basis for the development of 
operational risk mitigation plans.
If internal audit’s contribution to the process of OR management 
during the phases of monitoring/reporting and of control/risk reduc-
tion is important, its role in the earlier phases (identification and assess-
ment) appears just as relevant. Indeed, with reference to identification,

--- Página 101 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        93
the internal audit contributes to defining criteria of risk identification, 
mapping risks/processes and selecting the databases in which the opera-
tional losses are collected. Furthermore, internal audit analyses the qual-
ity of the documentation that supports the OR identification process 
and verifies, in terms of time and of form, the consistency and integrity 
of the process.
The most significant activities for the implementation of the sec-
ond phase (assessment) are represented by IA’s contribution to drafting 
self-assessment, writing reports useful for evaluation of internal con-
trol factors (integral part of one of the AMA components10), perform-
ing analyses aiming to identify audit priorities and verify the coherence 
between risk profile on the one hand, and objectives of the governing 
bodies, on the other (Scoppio 2005).
Hence, although the independence between the OR function and 
internal audit is respected, there is a complex and rich flow of infor-
mation between the two functions (Garnero 2003), as summarized in 
Fig. 4.1.
With specific reference to the AMA institutions, EBA (2015) estab-
lishes that an institution’s audit and internal validation functions have 
to confirm, on a regular basis, that the operational risk management 
and OR measurement processes implemented for AMA purposes are 
reliable and effective in managing and measuring operational risk within 
the organization. Furthermore, an institution’s audit and internal valida-
tion governance must be of a high quality.
With regard to the first point, the audit function must verify the 
integrity of the operational risk policies, processes and procedures, 
assessing whether these comply with legal and regulatory requirements 
as well as with established controls (at least on a yearly basis), with 
emphasis on the verification of the quality of the sources and of the 
data used for operational risk management and measurement purposes. 
Moreover, the audit function must have in place a review programme 
that is regularly updated in reference to (a) the development of inter-
nal processes for identifying, measuring and assessing, monitoring, con-
trolling and mitigating operational risk; (b) the implementation of new 
products, processes and systems that expose the institution to material 
operational risk. It is also important that the internal or external audit

--- Página 102 ---
94        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
functions be independent of the process or system being reviewed and 
that, where audit activities are outsourced, the management body and 
senior management of the institution remain accountable for ensuring 
that outsourced functions are performed in accordance with the institu-
tions’ approved audit plan.
Finally, with regard to the second point, the evaluation of the audit 
governance requires that the audit programmes for reviewing the AMA 
framework cover all significant activities that could expose the institu-
tion to material operational risk, including outsourced activities.
Relationship Between the OR Function and the Compliance 
Function
Acknowledgement of the contiguity between the OR function and 
the compliance function goes back to some years ago, when the Basel 
Committee recognized “a close relationship between compliance risk 
OR Function               Internal Audit
Internal data from LDC
External data from consortia, from sector providers or 
processed internally drawing information from newspapers 
and magazines
Results of Risk Self Assessment
Internal Audit              OR Function
Feedback from prejudicial events and operational 
anomalies (robberies, internal and external frauds, etc.)
Results of inspections
Assessments, also on specific processes, of the Internal 
Control System
Fig. 4.1  Example of information flow between the OR function and internal 
audit (Garnero 2003)

--- Página 103 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        95
and certain aspects of operational risk” (BCBS 2005). This statement is 
confirmed by numerous pieces of evidence: thus, it emerged that 75% 
of third level event types for classification of operational risk refers to 
compliance issues (Renna 2007); likewise, two Italian associations 
(Associazione Bancaria Italiana - ABI and Database Italiano Perdite 
Operative - DIPO) deemed the coverage of compliance risk net of 
reputational risk unnecessary, as the events at the origin of this compli-
ance risk subset are included in the sources of operational risk (Pasquini 
2009). Even the reading of the banks’ balance sheet shows that the two 
risks are often not dealt with as stand-alone categories: it is not infre-
quent to find compliance risk in operational risk, as a component of the 
latter.11 At the same time, there are now initiatives to exploit synergies 
in terms of database and assessment approaches (Berlanda 2009). From 
a sample of operational risk event types, it is indeed possible to go back 
to those more directly referable to compliance risk, after adjustment 
and screening operations (e.g. the exclusion of “pure” operational risk 
events—natural catastrophes, external frauds and other external events; 
those with date of occurrence prior to the enactment of regulations cur-
rently in force, and those without material loss).
The main interaction concerns the mutual improvement in the risk 
assessment systems. Besides, the presence of common risks allows the 
compliance function and the OR function to set up effective forms of 
collaboration. For example, the former may help to control the opera-
tional risk management system, to collect the loss data and to carry out 
the risk self-assessment. The latter, instead, may support the compliance 
function in the mapping of processes and in the reporting on time series 
of data and on risk exposure (Birindelli and Ferretti 2008).
In terms of specific areas of responsibility, synergies may involve 
systems for risk identification and measurement, which require peri-
odic and structured information flows between the two functions (see 
Fig. 4.2 for a summary).
The compliance function therefore transmits to the OR function 
judgments on the controls concerning operational and compliance risks; 
it contributes to the integration of loss data collection through an analy-
sis of the sources of compliance risk; it supports the drawing up of risk 
self-assessment by means of its qualitative evaluations and interviews of

--- Página 104 ---
96        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
risk owners; it informs on the trend of compliance risk and mitigation 
interventions carried out and planned.
By contrast, the OR function activates flows especially on events 
of operational loss linked to compliance issues, so that it can support 
the drafting of the compliance plan. It also supports risks and process 
mapping, revision of the existing controls, monitoring of the measures 
taken by the compliance function in terms of adequacy and effective-
ness, definition of the procedures and drawing up of the methods used 
to measure compliance risk that impacts on reputation. Specifically, the 
OR function extracts and sends loss data (internal and external), results 
of scenario analyses and evidence of analysis on business environment 
and internal control factors; data on the absorbed economic capital; risk 
indicators useful for monitoring processes involving compliance risk; 
Compliance Function                   OR Function
Results of  Compliance Risk Map
Judgements on control units
Trend of compliance risk
Organizational and procedural changes, carried out or planned  
(Compliance Corrective Action Plan)
Judgements like Risk Self Assessment
OR Function                      Compliance Function
Results of Loss Data Collection
Extractions from external database
Evidence of scenario analysis
Evidence of analysis on business environment and internal control factors
Economic capital absorbed
Risk indicators referred to processes
Mitigation actions and effectiveness of interventions
Fig. 4.2  Example of information flow between compliance function and OR 
function (Birindelli and Ferretti 2013)

--- Página 105 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        97
reports on actions of mitigation and their effectiveness (Birindelli and 
Ferretti 2013).
4.5	
Reporting on Operational Risks
The system of reporting on operational risks must ensure an adequate 
level of information on the operational risks through the exploitation 
of the tasks carried out by the OR functions, the company managers, 
and the dedicated committees. The information flow can be considered 
appropriate when this assumption takes place at all the levels of bank 
organization: process owners, managers at corporate and centralized 
level, senior management at group level, boards of directors at the cor-
porate and parent company level (Bazzarello and Maucci 2009).
The corporate OR functions should regularly produce reports on the 
exposure to operational risks to submit to the company managers and 
to the competent local committees. For both the group and the parent 
company such responsibility is on the centralized OR function. The 
corporate OR function should periodically prepare a report for senior 
management and for the competent committees in which the exposure 
to operational risks, mitigation actions and capital at risk are analysed. 
These reports, which should be promptly submitted to the centralized 
OR function, are based on (Bazzarello and Maucci 2009):
•	 Trend of operating losses, of insurance recoveries and of risk indica-
tors;
•	 Results of scenario analyses;
•	 Significant operational events (both internal and external) corre-
sponding to the period of reference;
•	 Capital at risk and proposed mitigation actions.
The sharing of reports within the corporate OR committees is essen-
tial: it allows making all the information available, ensuring an ade-
quate support to the corporate decision-making process. Similarly, the

--- Página 106 ---
98        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
information flow towards the centralized OR function and the group 
OR committee ensures an adequate support to the decision-making of 
the parent company’s senior management and board of directors. In 
support to such “adequacy” (i.e. timeliness and quality of the data, also 
in terms of informative value), it is essential that OR managers create 
a system of relationships that get the risk analyst closer to the risk, by 
means of a preferential relationship with those in charge of the control, 
support and business processes.
In banking practice (BCBS 2014), the OR functions of many banks 
have established adequate operational risk reporting and there are often 
data repositories that allow for the central capture, aggregation and 
reporting of key operational risk data (operational losses, operational 
risk assessments, control deficiencies and key risk indicators). However, 
some banks are currently self-assessing their operational risk prac-
tices against the Basel Committee’s “Principles for Effective Risk Data 
Aggregation and Risk Reporting” (BCBS 2013). These banks recognize 
the benefits of improving their risk data aggregation capabilities and 
risk reporting and are working towards this goal. In particular, they are 
aiming to improve completeness and timeliness of data, and to enhance 
the current operational risk data reconciliation processes and the flex-
ibility of operational risk reporting through improved ad hoc reporting. 
Furthermore, many banks state they have implemented quality-sensitive 
data reporting systems (in terms of comprehensiveness, accuracy, con-
sistency and appropriateness of volume), which are timely12 and peri-
odically submitted to review (BCBS 2014).
For AMA institutions, EBA (2015) states that the competent author-
ities shall verify the timeliness, accuracy, relevance and comprehensive-
ness in identifying problem areas of the institution’s reporting systems 
and internal controls (Article 11). To this purpose, the competent 
authorities shall in particular verify that:
1.	the reports be distributed to appropriate levels of management and 
to areas of the institution that the reports have identified as areas of 
concern;
2.	the institution’s senior management receive reports at least on a 
quarterly basis, reflecting the up-to-date status of the institution’s

--- Página 107 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        99
operational risk profile and use these reports in the decision-making 
process;
3.	the institution’s operational risk reports contain relevant management 
information and at least a high-level summary of the top operational 
risks of the institution and of the relevant subsidiaries as well as busi-
ness units;
4.	the institution use ad hoc reports in case of certain deficiencies in the 
policies, processes, and procedures for managing operational risk in 
order to promptly detect and address these deficiencies and there-
fore substantially reduce the potential frequency and severity of a loss 
event.
Therefore, the competent authorities shall oversee that the AMA 
institutions adopt effective risk reporting systems, which are a prerequi-
site of sound internal governance. These systems shall involve not only 
the management body and senior management, but also all the func-
tions responsible for the management of operational risks to which the 
institution is, or might be, exposed.
4.6	
Operational Risk and Information 
Technology
Information technology has a double nature, representing simultane-
ously both an element of risk and a factor of mitigation. IT can rep-
resent an element of risk since it can constitute the triggering of the 
technological risk and thus of the loss events linked to malfunctions 
and errors in the information systems, or linked to business disrup-
tions. It may also represent a source of indirect risk which occurs, for 
example, in the case of unskilled personnel using technological appli-
cations. On the other hand, information technology constitutes a fac-
tor of mitigation since it supports the implementation of risk control 
actions, and the establishment of contingency plans, including the 
redesign of the company processes. Accordingly, because of this double 
nature, strengthening of the technological equipment amplifies safety

--- Página 108 ---
100        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
and reliability issues of the application systems, thus increasing the ele-
ments of vulnerability to which the bank is exposed.
4.6.1	 IT as a Risk Factor
IT risk is a key component of operational risk, mainly through two 
event types (or subcategories). One is the so-called “business disrup-
tion and system failures” type, which addresses the disruption of regular 
business due to system failures, while the other type is “external fraud”, 
which covers threats from external parties trying to hack into a com-
pany’s systems and computers (Friedhoff and Mansouri 2015).
The major classes of risk associated with IT and, in particular, with 
network operations are (Paessler 2014):
•	 Technology risks: these are traditional IT concerns ranging from 
equipment failures through network-borne computer viruses and 
worms to more exotic issues such as denial-of-service attacks, intru-
sion attempts and “war walkers” accessing wireless networks from 
outside the building;
•	 Legal and personnel risks: these include compliance issues such as 
preparing for possible legal discovery requirements which might 
include email collection for civil suits; employees downloading inap-
propriate material from the Internet which could create hostile work-
place suits; and potential sabotage or espionage by employees;
•	 Natural and man-made disasters: floods, earthquakes and large 
storms, while much less likely, their occurrences can be devastating. 
Defining adequate strategies for managing these risks is one of the 
most difficult tasks of risk management.
In the case of a company producing IT services, typical operational 
risks are as follows (Giardina and Ierardi 2009):
•	 Defects of the applications produced due to shortcomings in the test-
ing phases
•	 Delays in the production of applications due to testing inefficiencies

--- Página 109 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        101
•	 Errors, omissions or delays in the transition into production of soft-
ware
•	 Breach of confidentiality rules
•	 Purchase of software not compliant with quality, cost-effectiveness or 
performance criteria
•	 Inadequate integration of new functionalities of the software devel-
oped, or regression of functionalities
•	 Lack of adequately skilled human resources
•	 Fraudulent use of logical accesses
•	 Unauthorized external access to business systems
•	 Unauthorized access to sensitive areas
•	 Uncontrolled access during unattended timeframes
•	 Lack of tools to analyse any impairment in the quality of services 
provided by the system
•	 Loss of data or of data integrity
•	 Failure in defining penalties within the contract
•	 Inconsistent application of contractual penalties provided in case of 
failure to meet the service level agreements
•	 Delayed management of expiry dates of the contracts
•	 Unauthorized changes to the data.
The introduction of any form of technology into a given production 
process, or merely the modification of an existing IT environment, 
requires extensive adaptation (in terms of staff skills, workflows, poli-
cies and procedures, etc.), which will dramatically change the risk pro-
file of a department or process. Therefore, IT risks cannot be considered 
separately from other risks, such as people risk, process risk and others: 
recognizing these challenges and categorizing them under “IT-related 
risks” provide management with a stronger control of these risks (Fheili 
2011).
The monitoring of operational IT risk across the numerous organiza-
tions becomes an important element of systemic risk management for 
the economy, and is reflected in the inclusion of IT risk guidelines in 
recent regulatory mandates, industry standards and enterprise risk man-
agement methodologies (Friedhoff and Mansouri 2015). BCBS (2014) 
underlines that a large number of banks have designed their IT policies

--- Página 110 ---
102        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
in order to fit local and international standards for IT controls. Among 
these, BCBS cites the following:
•	 Control Objectives for Information and related Technology 
(COBIT): an IT governance framework, developed by ISACA 
(previously known as the Information Systems Audit and Control 
Association), which aims primarily at compliance and security and, 
as such, provides globally accepted principles, practices, analytical 
tools and models for the governance and management of enterprise 
IT;
•	 Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL): describes a 
systematic, professional procedure for the management of IT services 
focusing on the end user rather than on the technology.
4.6.2	 IT as a Mitigation Factor
The areas of technological applications in OR management cover a 
very broad range embracing, for example, all the tools for decentral-
ized data processing, centralized data analysis, report preparation, infor-
mation collection and transmission, information storage and update. 
In addition to these examples of primary employment of software 
and hardware applications, there is also a range of solutions proposed 
for ensuring business continuity (in which the technological compo-
nent has a strong role), and thus the development of plans for restor-
ing functionality of the bank’s vital processes and recovering physical 
or electronic documentary supports needed for the continuation of the 
activity.
Therefore, the framework of measurement and management of OR 
includes several key components of the information system: risk event 
monitoring procedures, databases for business processes and associated 
risk factors, monitoring systems and management reporting systems. 
The operational risk management requires, therefore, the availability 
of an IT equipment capable of handling, in an integrated and system-
atic way, OR management phases (identification, evaluation, monitor-
ing, control, mitigation) in respect of the regulatory, organizational and 
methodological issues (Giardina and Ierardi 2009).

--- Página 111 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        103
Therefore, banks must have an IT system capable of responding 
to the requirements established for OR management. The need for 
changes in bank applications and processes is obvious, and it is reason-
able to think that this need is in conflict with the relatively rigid struc-
ture of the IT systems that the banks currently possess (Flores et al. 
2006). The establishment of an OR Information System (IS) involves 
the need to remodel the bank’s current IT-IS (in particular, the com-
puterized accounting subsystem). Therefore, it is necessary that banks 
carry out remarkable IT investments, associated with a thorough rede-
sign and/or restructuring of the organization so that the investments 
can bring benefits (Dos Santos and Sussman 2000).
In particular, in the AMA, information technology is relevant for 
implementing the procedures for the inclusion of internal operational 
losses in the database, for activating a data quality process (see Chap. 3) 
aimed at monitoring the quality of the loss data detection/collection, 
and for implementing specific software to support the management of 
insurance policies for the purpose of mitigating operational risks. The 
development of this software allows to collect within a single repository 
all the information related to the occurrence of loss events (e.g. thefts 
and robberies, ATMs burglaries, ATM fraud, damage to immovable 
assets caused by natural disasters/vandalism, damage to movable assets 
such as company cars and ATM equipment, embezzlement on behalf 
of employees), to the request for insurance recovery and the manage-
ment of relations with insurance companies. This allows to reduce times 
of data collection needed for the management of insurance policies, to 
increase the quality of the information related to the operational loss 
events and the insurance recoveries and, finally, to perform better the 
analysis of pricing of insurance policies in force.
4.6.3	 The Role of Internal Audit
In the case an external company providing IT services takes part in the 
management of a bank’s OR, it is possible to pinpoint specific tasks to 
both the bank’s IT internal audit and to the IA of the external service 
provider. The former is responsible for strengthening controls defined

--- Página 112 ---
104        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
within the IT processes, mitigating IT risks, managing the technological 
components, which need to be aligned with the objectives and strategies 
of the bank served by the external company. The IT auditors’ role is par-
ticularly important towards:
•	 achieving the effectiveness and efficiency objectives defined for the 
services outsourced to the external provider;
•	 ensuring compliance with the requirements of quality and security of 
the information managed by the information systems;
•	 promoting a balanced control environment for the management of 
operational risk;
•	 guarding against the risks coming from the information systems.
In turn, the verification activities carried out by the internal audit of the 
external company are mainly directed towards (Giardina and Ierardi 2009):
•	 the OR management process, with an emphasis on the activities of 
internal loss data collection which represent the main information 
component used to define a reliable and accurate system for measur-
ing operational risk;
•	 the reporting system on the operational risk management process, in 
order to ascertain:
–	 the ability to provide the bank’s supervisory and control bodies 
with all the data necessary and relevant to each stage of the OR 
management process (in terms of correctness and completeness);
–	 the consistency of the information with the actual operational 
risk profile of the company, which can be compared with the risk 
appetite defined by the bank;
–	 the timeliness of information, in relation to the ability to provide 
the management with the information necessary to a proper busi-
ness management.
In such setting, it is also likely to hypothesize a joint activity of the 
IT auditor and the security officer.

--- Página 113 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        105
While the IT auditor oversees the internal control system as a whole, 
the security officer is dedicated to the protection of corporate strategic 
assets and aims, in particular, to guarantee business continuity, in order 
to reduce interruptions of services and create value for the enterprise.
These roles are therefore able to enhance the components of the OR 
management process through:
•	 the identification and mapping of threats and vulnerabilities,
•	 the identification of new methods of risk analysis and assessment,
•	 the definition of specific monitoring activities concerning critical 
business areas,
•	 the determination of priorities in the planned measures for risk miti-
gation.
This joint intervention does not affect the independence of the internal 
audit and allows a continuous value creation in a context increasingly 
called upon to face complex challenges linked both to the rapid spread-
ing of new interrelated threats (pharming, phishing, skimming, boxing, 
trashing, sniffing, vishing, organized crime, etc.) and to the increasing 
issuing of laws and regulations to comply with.
4.7	
Conclusions
The board of directors and senior management should establish a corpo-
rate culture (Kaminski et al. 2016; EY 2015) that is guided by a strong 
risk management and that supports and provides appropriate stand-
ards and incentives for professional and responsible behaviour. In this 
regard, it is the responsibility of the board of directors to ensure that a 
strong operational risk management culture exists throughout the whole 
organization. On this basis, banks are asked to develop, implement and 
maintain a framework that is fully integrated into the bank’s risk man-
agement processes. The framework for operational risk management 
chosen by a bank will depend on a range of factors, including its nature, 
size, complexity and risk profile.

--- Página 114 ---
106        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Common industry practice for sound operational risk govern-
ance often relies on different lines of defence: one of these is an 
independent operational risk management function that should be 
fully integrated into the bank’s overall risk management governance 
structure. This function may take care of the operational risk meas-
urement and reporting processes. A key activity is to challenge the 
business lines’ inputs to, and outputs from, the bank’s risk manage-
ment, risk measurement and reporting systems. The operational risk 
management should have a sufficient number of personnel skilled in 
the management of operational risk to effectively address its many 
responsibilities.
Notes
	 1.	 The sub-process is the set of activities that belong within a same process 
and which are linked to one another; the phase is defined as the range 
of functional activities towards the execution of a subprocess; lastly, the 
activity is defined as the set of connected actions and performed accord-
ing to a logic and chronological sequence, usually without interruption.
	 2.	 OR culture is a combined set of individual and corporate values, atti-
tudes, competences and behaviour that determine a company’s com-
mitment to and style of OR management. In particular, OR culture 
includes: (1) Integrity and ethical values; (2) Management philosophy 
and operating style; (3) Organizational structure; (4) Delegation of 
authority and responsibility; (5) Human Resources policies and prac-
tices; (6) Staff competencies (Prokopenko and Bondarenko 2012).
	 3.	 The first line of defence is business line management: it is responsible 
for identifying and managing the risks inherent in the products, activi-
ties, processes and systems for which it is accountable. Besides, the 
second line of defence is the corporate operational risk function: the 
responsibilities of this function include challenging the business unit 
inputs to, and the outputs from, the bank’s operational risk manage-
ment tools, operational risk measurement activities and operational risk 
reporting systems.
	 4.	 The management body is defined in point (7) of Article 3(1) of 
Directive 2013/36/EU: ‘management body’ means an institution’s body

--- Página 115 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        107
or bodies, which are appointed in accordance with national law, which 
are empowered to set the strategy, objectives and overall direction, and 
which oversee and monitor management decision-making, and include 
the persons who effectively direct the business of the institution.
	 5.	 Senior management is defined in point (9) of Article 3(1) of Directive 
2013/36/EU: ‘senior management’ means those natural persons who 
exercise executive functions within an institution and who are responsi-
ble, and accountable to the management body, for the day-to-day man-
agement of the institution.
	 6.	 Operational risk tolerance is defined in EBA (2015), Article 8(1), point 
(b) (i), as “the institution’s forward looking view of the aggregate level 
and types of operational risk that the institution is willing or prepared 
to incur which will not jeopardise its strategic objectives and business 
plan”.
	 7.	 Operational risk tolerance statement is defined in EBA (2015), Article 
8(1), point (b) (ii), as “the institution’s written statement on the aggre-
gate level of operational risk loss and event types—containing both 
qualitative and quantitative measures, such as thresholds and limits 
based on operational risk loss metrics—that the institution is willing 
or prepared to incur in order to achieve its strategic objectives and busi-
ness plan”.
	 8.	 The management and monitoring of the customers’ claims often 
involve other functions, especially internal audit and compliance.
	 9.	 In this respect, Directive 2013/36/EU, Article 85(2), establishes that: 
“Competent authorities shall ensure that contingency and business 
continuity plans are in place to ensure an institution’s ability to operate 
on an ongoing basis and limit losses in the event of severe business dis-
ruption.”
	10.	 The reference is to business environment and internal control factors 
(BEICFs).
	11.	 As we have seen in Chapter 2, the EBA moves in the same direction: 
the compliance risk should fall within the OR. EBA makes it clear that 
this risk must be included in the definition of operational risk found in 
Article 4(1)(52) of Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 (CRR): it is one of 
the many different categories of operational risk.
	12.	 Many banks produce quarterly operational risk reports, but only a few 
banks produce them on a monthly basis.

--- Página 116 ---
108        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
References
Bazzarello, D., and D. Maucci. 2009. Le funzioni aziendali e i RO: l’esperienza 
UniCredit. In Il Rischio operativo nelle banche italiane. Modelli, gestione e dis-
closure, ed. G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti. Roma: Bancaria Editrice.
BCBS-Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2005. Compliance and the 
compliance function in banks, April.
BCBS-Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2013. Principles for effective 
risk data aggregation and risk reporting, January.
BCBS-Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2014. Review of the princi-
ples for the sound management of operational risk, October 6.
Berlanda, M. 2009. La collaborazione con la funzione Risk Management. 
Paper presented at Associazione Bancaria Italiana Convention on 
Compliance in Banks, Dalle regole alle strategie di business, Milano, 20–21 
ottobre.
Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti. 2008. Compliance risk in Italian banks: The 
results of a survey. Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance 16 (4): 
335–351.
Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti. 2009. Il presidio organizzativo del RO e gli stru-
menti di mitigazione. In Il Rischio operativo nelle banche italiane. Modelli, ges-
tione e disclosure, ed. G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti. Roma: Bancaria Editrice.
Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti. 2013. Compliance function in Italian banks: 
Organizational issues. Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance 21 
(3): 217–240.
Brienza, P., and P. Gianturco. 2005. I profili organizzativi della struttura di 
Operational Risk Management. In Il rischio operativo nelle banche, ed. G. Gabbi, 
M. Marsella, and M. Massacesi. Milano: Egea.
Cagan, P. 2006. On finding linkages: Corporate governance and operational 
risk. The John Liner Review 19: 7.
Dos Santos, B., and L. Sussman. 2000. Improving the return on IT invest-
ment: The productivity paradox. International Journal of Information 
Management 20: 429–440.
EY. 2015. Rethinking risk management.
Fernandez-Laviada, A. 2007. Internal audit function role in operational risk man-
agement. Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance 15 (2): 143–155.
Fheili, M.I. 2011. Information technology at the forefront of operational risk: 
Banks are at a greater risk. Journal of Operational Risk 6 (2): 47–67.

--- Página 117 ---
4  Operational Risk Management: Organisational …        109
Flores, F., E. Bonson-Ponte, and T. Escobar-Rodriguez. 2006. Operational risk 
information system: A challenge for the banking sector. Journal of Financial 
Regulation and Compliance 14 (4): 383–401.
Friedhoff, J., and M. Mansouri. 2015. Monitoring IT operational risks across 
US capital markets. Journal of Operational Risk 10 (2): 61–97.
Garnero, R. 2003. Audit Management: una metodologia di valutazione 
dei rischi aziendali. In I controlli interni nelle banche. Evoluzione, metodi 
e casi pratici, ed. M. Alonzo, A. Chiarotto, R. Garnero, C. Giaj Levra, S. 
Panebianco, A. Pappada, and G. Varola. Roma: Edibank.
Giardina, V., A. Ierardi. 2009. La governance del framework ORM e la sana e 
prudente gestione dell’Information Technology: l’esperienza del Consorzio 
Operativo Gruppo Montepaschi. In Il Rischio operativo nelle banche ­italiane. 
Modelli, gestione e disclosure, ed. G. Birindelli, and P. Ferretti. Roma: 
Bancaria Editrice.
Gusmeroli, M., A. Bonolo. 2009. Il RO e la revisione dei processi aziendali. In 
Il Rischio operativo nelle banche italiane. Modelli, gestione e disclosure, ed. G. 
Birindelli, and P. Ferretti. Roma: Bancaria Editrice.
Kaminski, P., D. Mikkelsen, T. Poppensieker, and A. Raufuβ. 2016. 
Nonfinancial risk: A growing challenge for the bank, McKinsey, July.
Lyons, S. 2006. Corporate defence: Are stakeholders interests adequately 
defended? Journal of Operational Risk 1 (2): 63–73.
Metelli, F. 2005. Dalla teoria alla pratica: la strada dell’operational risk man-
agement in una banca italiana, Corso di aggiornamento A.S.S.B.B. – 
Universita Cattolica su Il Rischio Operativo nelle Banche: Metodologie di 
valutazione e strumenti di copertura assicurativa, Milano, 7–8 Giugno.
Milkau, U. 2013. Adequate communication about operational risk in the busi-
ness line. Journal of Operational risk 8 (1): 35–57.
Miranda, A. 2000. Rischio operativo e intermediazione finanziaria, 
Bancaria 7–8.
Paessler, D. 2014. Visibility in IT operational risk management. The role of 
network, White Paper, June.
Pandey, 
D. 
2008. 
Who 
‘owns’ 
operational 
risk? 
http://ssrn.com/
abstract=1262606.
Pasquini, C. 2009. Introduzione alla sessione ‘Modelli e fattori di successo: 
esperienze a confronto’. Paper presented at Associazione Bancaria Italiana 
Conference on Compliance in Banks, Dalle regole alle strategie di business, 
Milano, 20 e 21 ottobre.

--- Página 118 ---
110        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Prokopenko, Y., and D. Bondarenko. 2012. Operational risk management: 
Best practice overview and implementation, Risk professional workshop, 
Tirana, Albania, September 10–11.
Renna, S. 2007. La gestione del rischio legale: ruoli ed interazioni fra le fun-
zioni di ORM e di Compliance. In Basilea 2. Cosa devono fare le banche 
adesso. Le nuove disposizioni di vigilanza e i processi implementativi in atto, 
Atti del convegno del 22 e 23 gennaio, ed. ABI – Associazione Bancaria 
Italiana, 67–80. Roma: Bancaria Editrice.
Scoppio, M. 2005. Punti di attenzione nel quadro regolamentare: internal 
auditing, sound practice, operational risk e “nuova” funzione di compliance, 
Intervento al Seminario ABIFORMAZIONE su Lineamenti evolutivi della 
funzione di Internal Audit, Milano, 24–25 febbraio.

--- Página 119 ---
5.1	
Introduction
Banks adopting advanced measurement approach have the possibil-
ity of reducing the operational risk capital requirement in presence of 
insurance and other risk transfer mechanisms as they demonstrate that 
a noticeable risk-mitigating effect is achieved and the mitigation tech-
niques comply with specific standards.
In this chapter we describe the regulatory framework of the opera-
tional risk mitigation techniques and we analyse, particularly for 
insurance, the main operational issues of their use as operational risk 
mitigants, highlighting the most relevant impacts on the banks’ opera-
tional risk management. We also describe the most widespread instru-
ments banks may use: both traditional and innovative ones.
5
Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies 
and Tools
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks, 
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_5
111

--- Página 120 ---
112        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
5.2	
Recognition of OR Mitigation Techniques: 
The Regulatory Framework
The regulatory framework allows banks adopting AMA methodology 
the possibility of reducing the operational risk capital requirement in 
presence of insurance and other risk transfer mechanisms—ORTMs 
(see Chap. 3)—inasmuch as the bank demonstrates that a noticeable 
risk-mitigating effect is achieved and the mitigation techniques comply 
with specific standards (Article 323—CRR 575/2013; EBA 2015).
In particular, when the mitigation techniques are in the form of 
insurance (among others, Kuritzkes and Scott 2005), the provider must 
be authorized to provide insurance or reinsurance—either in the EU 
or in jurisdictions with equivalent regulatory standards for insurance 
companies. Furthermore, the provider must have a minimum claim-
paying ability rating warranted by an eligible credit assessment institu-
tion (ECAI), which the EBA has established to be associated with credit 
quality step 3 or above under the rules for risk weighting of exposures to 
corporate under the standardized approach for credit risk.
In order to prevent circumvention of rules, the insurance must meet 
specific conditions. It must be provided via a third party, and multiple 
counting of techniques must be avoided. Accordingly, it is necessary to 
ensure that neither the institution nor any of the entities included in the 
scope of the consolidation has a participation or a qualifying holding 
in the party providing the insurance and is knowingly reinsuring con-
tracts covering OR events that form the object of the initial insurance 
arrangement entered by the institution.
Appropriate risk mitigation calculations should also reflect the insur-
ance coverage and the framework for recognizing the need of insurance 
being sturdy and well documented. In particular, insurance coverage 
should be aligned with the institution’s risk profile and comply with the 
likelihood and impact of all OR losses (insurance risk mapping process). 
Also, the institution should estimate the likelihood of insurance recov-
ery and the possible time frame for the receipt of payment by insurers 
(for example, likelihood of a claim being litigated, the length of the pro-
cess and current settlement rates and terms), based on the experience of

--- Página 121 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        113
the insurance risk management team and supported, where necessary, 
by appropriate external expertise (e.g. claims counsel, brokers and car-
riers; BCBS 2010; EBA 2015). The institution should assess the per-
formance of insurance in the event of an OR loss based on previous 
estimates and should design such process, so that it is able to assess the 
insurance response for any relevant loss and data-scenario entered into 
the capital model. The institution should then painstakingly map the 
insurance policies based on previous assessments regarding the institu-
tion’s risks, using all the information sources available, such as internal 
data, external data and scenario estimates. The institution must also 
conduct the mapping with transparency and consistency, and assign the 
appropriate weight to past and expected insurance performance through 
the appraisal of each insurance policy component. Lastly, the institution 
must obtain formal approval from the appropriate risk body or commit-
tee, and periodically re-examine the insurance mapping process.
The framework for recognizing insurance also foresees the use of a 
sophisticated risk mitigation calculation. In such case the modelling 
approach for incorporating the insurance coverage within the AMA 
must be consistent with the OR measurement system adopted to quan-
tify the gross-of-insurance losses, be transparent in its relationship with 
the effective likelihood and impact of losses used in the institution’s 
overall determination of AMA’s fund requirements and consistent with 
that relationship.
Lastly, the risk mitigation calculation needs to be aligned to the 
OR profile in a timely fashion. Therefore, whenever the nature of the 
insurance changes significantly or a major change occurs in the institu-
tion’s OR profile, the institution must review the use of insurance and 
recalculate the AMA capital requirements. In the event material losses 
affecting insurance coverage occur, the recalculation of the AMA capi-
tal requirements should consider an additional margin of conservatism. 
Whenever an unexpected termination or reduction of the insurance 
coverage occurs, the institution must be prepared to promptly replace 
the insurance policy on equivalent or improved terms, conditions and 
coverage or to increase the AMA capital requirements to a gross-of-
insurance level. Finally, the institution must calculate capital on a gross 
and net-of-insurance, at a level of granularity such that any erosion in

--- Página 122 ---
114        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
the amount of insurance available (e.g. payment of a material loss) or 
a change in insurance coverage can be immediately recognized for its 
effect on the AMA capital requirements (EBA 2015).
A further issue concerns the suitability of the methodology for recog-
nizing insurance to capture all the relevant elements through discounts 
or haircuts in the amount of insurance recognition. Specifically, the 
institution should investigate any factors that may prevent the insurance 
from issuing the coverage expected and hence decrease the effectiveness 
of risk transfer (payment uncertainty) as well as any critical issues pre-
venting the ability of the institution to identify, analyse and report the 
claim as expected. To this end, it is also important to verify how the 
mentioned factors have affected the mitigating impact of insurance on 
the OR profile in the past and how they might affect it in the future. 
Payment and the other aforesaid uncertainties must be reflected in the 
AMA capital requirements through appropriately conservative haircuts. 
Moreover, the institution should take into account the characteristics of 
the insurance policies: e.g. whether they exclusively cover losses claimed 
or notified to the insurer during the term; whether they cover losses 
incurred during the policy term, even where they are not discovered and 
the claim is not lodged until after expiration of the policy; whether the 
losses are first-party direct losses or third-party liability losses. The insti-
tution must document data on insurance pay-outs by loss type and set 
haircuts accordingly.
In the attempt of verifying the true coverage protection provided by 
the insurer or the ability to receive the claim payment funds within a 
reasonable time frame, the institution should set in place procedures 
for loss identification, analysis and claims processing. The institution 
must quantify and model haircuts separately for each of the identi-
fied relevant uncertainties. However, no single haircut can be applied 
in the calculation of all uncertainties, nor an ex-post calculation haircut 
can be made. The institution must take into account the insurer’s risk 
of claim-paying ability, by applying appropriate haircuts in the insur-
ance modelling methodology. Moreover, it should ensure that the claim-
paying ability risk for counterparty default is assessed on the basis of 
the credit quality of the insurance company responsible under the given 
insurance contract, independently of whether the insurance company’s

--- Página 123 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        115
parent institution has a better rating or whether the risk is transferred 
to a third party. Conservative assumptions should be made about the 
renewal of insurance policies in terms of equivalent conditions and cov-
erage as the original or existing contracts. The institution should have 
processes in place to guarantee that the potential exhaustion of insur-
ance policy limits, the price and availability of reinstatements of cover, 
and coverage mismatches (cases in which the coverage of the insurance 
contract does not match the OR profile) are reflected in the AMA capi-
tal requirements. The requirement of applying haircuts for the residual 
term (period before expiry of the insurance contract) or for the cancella-
tion term can be waived if (a) the institution can demonstrate the exist-
ence of continuous coverage on equivalent or improved terms (for at 
least 365 days) or (b) it has an insurance policy that cannot be with-
drawn by the insurer or that has a cancellation period of over 1 year.
5.2.1	 Brief Considerations on Other Risk Transfer 
Mechanisms
If the mitigation techniques are in the form of ORTMs rather than 
insurance, the institution must demonstrate that they are truly trans-
ferring risk and these tools are not used to elude AMA capital require-
ments. In light of the peculiar features of OR—where there are no 
clear underlying assets of reference and where unexpected losses play a 
greater role than in other types of risks—this is a pivotal aspect. This 
condition is further exacerbated in the light of the lack of an efficient, 
liquid and structured market for OR products which have so far been 
traded outside the banking sector (catastrophe bonds, weather deriva-
tives, etc.). Often assessing the legal risk of such mechanisms is difficult, 
even when the terms and conditions are clearly and carefully spelt out. 
In order to ensure that a noticeable risk-mitigating effect is achieved 
with the use of ORTMs, the institution should demonstrate experi-
ence in using them, and define their characteristics (e.g. probability of 
coverage, timeliness of payment) before they be recognized in the OR 
measurement system. ORTMs are not accepted as eligible risk mitiga-
tion tools of the AMA capital requirements when they are held or used

--- Página 124 ---
116        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
for trading purposes, rather than for risk management purposes. The 
ORTM is subject to verification in terms of eligibility of the protection 
seller (e.g. regulated or unregulated entity) and the nature and charac-
teristics of the protection (e.g. funded protection, securitization, guar-
antee mechanism, derivatives, etc.). The institution must calculate the 
AMA capital requirements on a gross and net of ORTMs basis for each 
capital calculation. The level of granularity needs to be such that an 
erosion in the amount of protection available can be immediately rec-
ognized in terms of its impact on capital requirements. When material 
losses affect the coverage provided by the ORTMs, or when changes in 
the contracts create major uncertainty in terms of coverage, the institu-
tion must recalculate its capital requirements with an additional margin 
of conservatism.
In closing, we shall recall that the reduction in capital requirements 
from the recognition of insurances and ORTMs cannot exceed 20% of 
the own funds requirement for OR prior to the recognition of risk miti-
gation techniques, and that a bank using AMA for the calculation of its 
OR capital requirement must disclose a description of the use of insur-
ance and ORTSs for OR mitigation.
5.3	
Mitigation Policies: Some Operational 
Issues
The option of AMA banks employing insurance tools to reduce OR 
capital requirement has brought a renewed interest of the financial com-
munity towards the opportunities linked to the use of insurance cov-
erage. Indeed, despite insurance policies having always represented one 
of the methods for managing operational risks, their potential within 
the OR processes has become more evident with the introduction of 
the regulatory provision on OR mitigation. Such aspect has thus com-
pelled intermediaries to review the evaluation procedures of insurance 
products (which in most cases are based on their costs and on budget 
available rather than on the risks they should cover) and to gain bet-
ter understanding on the most convenient ways to match insurance

--- Página 125 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        117
demand-and-supply, in order to be less susceptible to the influence of 
insurance brokers.
Operational risk management procedures depend on many factors, 
including the bank’s risk appetite, its capacity of risk retention, and 
its tolerance towards the volatility of cash flows (KPMG 2008). On 
broader terms, the management approaches of pure risks (to which OR 
refers) are distinguished into control and financing techniques.
The first category (control approaches) foresees preventive actions 
towards reducing the probability of occurrence of prejudicial events, as 
well as protective actions towards limiting the damage arising from such 
events. The control approach also includes physical control techniques, 
among which (i) the use of measures able to limit the likelihood of a 
risk event or of related losses, (ii) procedural techniques, consisting in 
the provision of rules of conduct; and, finally, (iii) psychological tech-
niques, designed to promote a risk culture within the bank.
The second category (financing approaches) foresees intervention on 
the economic-financial impact determined by the adverse event. Such 
methods may be either implemented as risk transfer—typical of the 
insurance phenomenon—or as risk retention, for which financial plan-
ning is pivotal in consideration of the need to create financial resources 
within the bank that can cover the costs arising from the occurrence of 
the risk event.
Hence, in keeping with the general considerations of a unitary logic 
of risk management, an appropriate OR control system shall be based 
on different solutions, whose characteristics allow to match a specific 
option to each specific type of operational risk. In other words, by dis-
tinguishing the operational risks in terms of frequency and severity, it 
is possible to establish a correlation between classes of risk and type 
of management approaches (Sironi 2003; Locatelli 2001). Although 
the decision of replacing a specific management approach in favour of 
another is based on criteria of economic convenience and effective pro-
tection, in the case of high-frequency, low-impact (HFLI) events—and 
even more of low-frequency, low-impact (LFLI) events—it is likely that 
the most appropriate choice be that of retention, which can be achieved 
through allocations to reserve for covering the expected loss and own 
funds for covering the unexpected one. In the event the intermediary’s

--- Página 126 ---
118        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
capacity of risk taking is not compatible with the peculiarities of the 
risk event, alternative solutions are represented by hedging tools or—
considering the scarce diffusion of such latter solution for ORs—by 
measures able to minimize the probability of occurrence, or by resort-
ing to insurance policies. The latter, however, are unsuitable for facing 
high-frequency, high-impact (HFHI) events, typically internal events, 
for which measures such as strengthening of human capital, of control 
procedures, and of information systems are more appropriate. Lastly, 
as to low-frequency, high-impact (LFHI) events, some opportunities 
may derive from the transfer of activities (outsourcing) or of financial 
impact. In the former case (outsourcing) it is essential that the respon-
sibilities between the parties be shared, keeping in mind that perform-
ing the external functions safely and correctly remains responsibility of 
the board of directors and top management. Equally important is the 
management of residual risks associated with the possibility of dys-
functions in the provision of services. In the second case, reference is 
made to insurance coverage (Blacker 2000; Peters et al. 2011; Bazzarello 
et al. 2006), whose mitigating efficacy is correlated to the characteris-
tics of the type of risk we are being dealt with: low statistical frequency, 
potential of a heavy financial impact, difficult control on the part of the 
exposed subject, and external origin. The insurance tool gains even fur-
ther value if we consider the difficulty of VaR models in detecting low-
frequency events (Sironi and Resti 2008). In reference to this last point, 
it is worth underlining that not all LFHI events are manageable through 
the insurance tool, either because of the low level of development of the 
insurance (as for example in the case of catastrophic events) or because 
of the excessive burden on the policy holder, in which cases banks can 
decide to take action exclusively on the internal control systems. Finally, 
it is necessary to check that the abatement of OR derived from the use 
of insurance does not imply transfer of risks to other sectors or the crea-
tion of new ones.
In any case, among the reasons for which the intermediary turns to 
the insurance tools, noteworthy is the impact on the distribution of 
losses (Scott and Jackson 2002). In the presence of an insurance cover-
age, the standard deviation of the single events—associated with unex-
pected losses—tends to diminish, insofar as the premiums paid by the

--- Página 127 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        119
bank are predetermined (Fig. 5.1). In principle, the price of insurance 
coverage should coincide with the expected value of the loss during the 
period of validity of the policy, increased by remuneration for the insur-
ance company, which could however increase excessively the cost of the 
policy. This explains why the value is greater than average, in compari-
son with the hypothesis of non-insurance of the risks. In such case the 
decision of the bank to support a higher cost for the expected value of 
the loss depends on the uncertainty of the assessment.
However, it is also true that the insurance company may limit the 
costs, through the diversification policies and pooling of risks, which 
determine a reduction in both the standard deviation and the average. 
The possibility for the insurance company to achieve economies of scale 
allows setting more admissible pricing policies for banks. This is par-
ticularly true for low-frequency events—although not for those with 
very low likelihood (such as catastrophic events for which the insurance 
instrument does not represent the optimal solution, and which require a 
wide availability of data to be appropriately measured).
Another advantage connected with the use of the insurance cover-
age is represented by the opportunity to free capital that would oth-
erwise be allocated to covering OR, making it available for profitable 
Probability of loss
No insurance
Sum paid by the bank
Insurance: lower standard deviation and
higher average value
Fig. 5.1  Insurance impact on the Loss distribution curve (Scott and Jackson 2002)

--- Página 128 ---
120        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
opportunities of investments. Moreover, the use of insurance allows 
finding capital resources in circumstances in which funding tends to 
diminish, as in the case ORs arise. On the other hand, the OR transfer 
exposes the bank to the risk of the insurer’s default (Li et al. 2011)—
unlikely, especially in the presence of high rating, yet possible—at the 
occurrence of the adverse event. Moreover, the insurance company 
could fulfil its obligation, but delay the times of payment, with foresee-
able inconveniences for the bank in terms of timely availability of funds.
If on one hand the integrated risks management allows insurance 
companies to exploit specialization advantages and to achieve cost-
savings that can favour more convenient pricing policies, on the other 
hand, the specificity of ORs to which banks are exposed amplifies the 
information asymmetries between them and the insurance compa-
nies, who are hence unable to evaluate conveniently the counterpart’s 
actual risk. The effect of moral hazard, however, can be circumscribed 
by including dedicated clauses in the insurance contract—first and fore-
most the deductible. The fact that a part of the risk remains upon the 
bank should encourage it to improve its own risk management.
Owing to the regulatory provision on mitigating ORs through insur-
ance coverage, in respect of precise criteria referring both to the policies 
and to the insurance companies, many critical elements hinder the full 
implementation on behalf of banks.
Among these is the less than satisfactory matching between insurance 
coverage and event types defined by the supervisory authorities, which 
undermines the ability of the insurance policies to face the different OR 
types, as is seen especially in some financial systems like the Italian one. 
Just as frequent is the situation in which risk events are covered by mul-
tiple policies (often deficient in terms of harmonization), while other 
events are only scarcely covered (Franzoso 2005).
The need to improve the convergence between insurance offer and 
banks’ needs requires that banks map risks to be insured (insurance 
mapping) in order to understand whether insurance products match 
operational losses or not. To such purpose, it is fundamental that 
there be a more dialectic relationship between the organizational unit 
assigned to the management of insurance policies and ORM (Lemmi 
Gigli 2005) since the results of the process of ORs identification and

--- Página 129 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        121
evaluation should support decision-making in the field of insurance, 
particularly in reference to the definition of policies requirements. In 
reference to this, it is important to consider the suitability of the loss 
distribution approach (see Chap. 6) for evaluating the impact of insur-
ance solutions on OR exposure and thus their level of efficacy and effec-
tiveness; such approach also allows identifying the pure component of 
the premium (Vellella 2005).
From the insurance market’s perspective, there are several critical fac-
tors to be considered. In principle, such factors can still be traced to the 
fragmented nature of the insurance industry, to the limited diversifica-
tion of products, to the widespread technical complexity of the word-
ing of the insurance contracts, to the scarce transparency of the pricing 
and to the heavy deductibles and premiums paid by the banks. It may 
be necessary to remodel the insurance offer through a comparison with 
banks, in order to understand their specific needs and the ability to eval-
uate their OR exposure (Marzano 2005). Accordingly, banks need to 
enhance their communication skills in portraying the operational risk as 
well as their risk management policies, in a way that these can be con-
veniently assessed by the insurance industry and in turn be expressed in 
the policies under the form of more favourable contract terms, such as 
reduced deductibles and/or premiums.
Criticisms have also been advanced with respect to the decision of 
the supervisory authorities to limit the AMA bank’s use of the insur-
ances as factors of OR mitigation, denouncing the distorting effect on 
the competitiveness of the banking system. Indeed, an effective risk 
transfer strategy can benefit the management of all the intermediaries, 
including those adopting the most simplified methods (SA and BIA), 
which are numerically significant. On the other hand, it is likely that 
only the large-sized intermediaries and those with more sophisticated 
risk management policies—presumably those adopting advanced meth-
ods—are able to evaluate the insurance tool more effectively, to support 
the high costs of the policies and to control better the volatility of cash 
flows related to a possible payment default or delay by the insurance 
company.
The dreaded competitive disadvantage to the detriment of smaller 
institutions is somewhat weakened by the limited use of insurance tools

--- Página 130 ---
122        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
by the banking industry, as confirmed by the results of the Loss Data 
Collection Exercise (LDCE), conducted in 2008 on 121 intermediaries 
(42 AMA banks and 79 non-AMA banks) from Australia (11 banks), 
Europe (60 banks), Japan (18 banks), North America (23 banks), 
Brazil/India (9 banks) (BCBS 2009). The LDCE collected qualitative 
information, exposure indicators, capital estimates, and a wide range of 
practical information as to how OR is measured and managed. Given 
the broad participation in this exercise (the previous exercise is dated 
2002), the results can be viewed as generally representative of the bank-
ing industry.
With reference to insurance recoveries, the banks were asked to pro-
vide the total amount of insurance recoveries associated with each loss 
in their internal data submission as well as an indication of whether the 
loss was covered by an insurance policy. As a number of banks had some 
difficulties in mapping insurance coverage to individual loss events, 
there was some uncertainty arising from the insurance coverage indica-
tor; given this uncertainty, the analysis included data from participat-
ing institutions that had reported insurance recovery information for at 
least one loss. The key findings are shown in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.
Table 5.1 reports the number of losses with insurance recoveries as a 
percentage of the total number of losses, the total amount of insurance 
recoveries divided by the total amount of losses with an insurance recov-
ery (loss amounts refer to gross loss net of all non-insurance recoveries), 
and the total amount of insurance recoveries divided by the total value 
of all losses (loss amounts refer to gross loss net of all non-insurance 
recoveries). These three ratios were estimated both for all-size losses and 
Table 5.1  Insurance recoveries (BCBS 2009)
All banks
Percent of losses 
with an insurance 
recovery (%)
Recovery rate for 
losses with recov-
eries (%)
Amount recovered 
as a percent of 
total loss amount 
(%)
All losses
Median (25–75th)
2.1
(0.4–8.3)
74.6
(59.3–89.9)
3.1
(1.3–9.5)
Losses ≥ € 20,000
Median (25–75th)
4.2
(1.3–15.6)
70.5
(53.2–87.1)
3.0
(0.7–11.8)

--- Página 131 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        123
for losses over € 20,000. Median 25–75th represents the interquartile 
range, which is the range of values (between the 25 and 75th percentile) 
including 50% of the banks in the sample.
Only a small proportion of the losses had an associated insurance 
recovery. The values indicate that 2.1% of all losses and 4.2% of losses 
of € 20,000 or more were offset to some degree by an insurance recov-
ery (the results for insurance recoveries in the previous loss data collec-
tion exercise, 2002 LDCE, were similar). The median recovery rate was 
74.6% for all losses and 70.5% for losses of € 20,000 or more, indicat-
ing that for losses with insurance recoveries at least half of the banks had 
a significant portion of the loss amount offset by insurance. Finally, a 
small percentage (approximately 3.0%) of the total amount of internal 
losses was recovered through insurance.
Table 5.2  Insurance recoveries by event type (BCBS 2009)
All banks
Percent of losses 
with an insurance 
recovery (%)
Recovery rate for 
losses with recov-
eries (%)
Amount recovered 
as a percent of 
total loss amount 
(%)
Internal fraud
Median (25–75th)
0.00
(0.00–3.37)
62.94
(36.36–79.58)
0.00
(0.00–2.00)
External fraud
Median (25–75th)
8.84
(0.43–33.50)
77.91
(58.30–96.21)
7.17
(58.30–96.21)
Employment 
practices and 
workplace safety
Median (25–75th)
0.00
(0.00–0.30)
91.32
(44.14–100.00)
0.00
(0.00–0.35)
Clients, products 
and business 
practices
Median (25–75th)
0.00
(0.00–0.07)
67.73
(31.40–85.41)
0.00
(0.00–0.03)
Damage to physi-
cal assets
Median (25–75th)
27.91
(0.00–57.69)
81.28
(67.00–93.20)
19.83
(0.30–51.35)
Business disrup-
tion and system 
failures
Median (25–75th)
0.00
(0.00–0.00)
85.35
(61.54–95.73)
0.00
(0.00–0.17)
Execution, delivery 
and process man-
agement
Median (25–75th)
0.00
(0.00–0.80)
71.64
(45.70–92.27)
0.01
(0.00–0.33)

--- Página 132 ---
124        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
By distinguishing AMA and non-AMA banks, it should be under-
lined that the former had a much lower ratio of losses with recoveries 
compared to the others, but reported similar recovery rates. The lower 
ratio of losses with recoveries may reflect the nature of losses at AMA 
banks, since they may be more likely than non-AMA to experience 
larger, non-insurable events.
Table 5.2 shows insurance recovery patterns across event types for 
losses of € 20,000 or more. Insurance recoveries were most commonly 
mapped to losses classified as Damage to Physical Assets. A typical bank 
had 27.9% of the Damage to Physical Asset losses associated with an 
insurance recovery. This is not surprising as property insurance is a 
standard insurance policy purchased by banks. External Fraud losses 
had the second highest median ratio of losses with insurance recov-
eries (8.84%). For all other event types, more than half of banks had 
no recoveries associated with their losses. Recovery rates ranged from 
62.94% for Internal Fraud losses to 91.32% for Employment Practices 
and Workplace Safety losses. For the amount recovered as a percent-
age of the total loss amount, median ratios were zero in all event types 
except for Damage to Physical Assets with a ratio of 19.83%, External 
Fraud (7.17%) and Execution, Delivery and Process Management 
(0.01%).
5.4	
Mitigation Tools: Traditional Versus More 
Innovative Instruments
Among the mechanisms of OR transfer, the insurance tool is certainly 
the most important. However, for some types of OR, recourse to the 
insurance market is not all that suitable, owing for example to the very 
low-likelihood, high-impact features of the risk event. Hence the search 
for a convergence between insurance and finance through the develop-
ment of alternative risk transfer solutions (Alternative Risk Transfer—
ART),  characterized by a high degree of innovation in terms of mode, 
duration and hedging (Miani 2004).

--- Página 133 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        125
5.4.1	 Insurance Offer
Over the years the insurance offer has been enriched in response to the 
changing nature and types of ORs, to such an extent that the contracts 
covering events such as theft and robberies have been complemented 
by policies designed to face risks related to information technology, 
responsibility of the banks and of their employees towards clients, and 
responsibility of the managers towards the shareholders. The types of 
damages against which banks generally seek to protect themselves by 
means of insurance are material damages caused by external events and 
impoverishment for compensation to third parties arising from respon-
sibilities associated with the activities performed. Policies of more or 
less ancient origins are taken out for these purposes. Among the more 
traditional policies, we may mention those covering accidents, health 
and fire; the latter aimed at safeguarding the physical assets of the bank, 
mainly against the occurrence of low-frequency, high-impact risks (risk 
of fire and natural events). The progressive relevance of Information 
Technology in the banking activity explains the increased importance 
of information policy in the current panorama of insurance products 
negotiated by intermediaries.
From a more operational standpoint it is possible to identify policies 
specifically designed for the financial sector, which are rather diffused 
internationally.
Among these, first of all, is the Bankers Blanket Bond, as an exam-
ple of a “basket or umbrella” insurance product, i.e. the coverage of 
multiple risky events. This represents one of the most common poli-
cies adopted by the institutions involved in the provision of financial 
services to third parties (all financial institutions, investment managers 
and investment funds). It provides protection against the direct finan-
cial loss sustained as a result of various events, such as employee infidel-
ity; the physical loss of property on premises and in transit; the forgery 
and alteration of monetary instruments and other documents of value; 
computer and cyber fraud as well as payments for fraudulent elec-
tronic funds. The coverage provided protects the balance sheet for fraud

--- Página 134 ---
126        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
against an organization and, especially for larger organizations, it further 
guarantees that funds and property are adequately safeguarded.
Another type of coverage is represented by the Professional Indemnity 
Insurance, which provides protection against legal liability to third par-
ties. These liabilities can result from negligent acts, errors or omissions 
committed by the officers or employees of the organization. Claims 
may come from a variety of sources and jurisdictions which can include 
losses due to advice or negligence in carrying out professional duties.
Another policy is that of Cash and Valuables in Premises and Transit. 
This insurance provides coverage against the risks of physical loss or 
damage arising from whatever cause (e.g. theft, fire, theft by employ-
ees, mysterious or unexplained disappearance). Specific items cov-
ered include: cash and securities, gold and precious metals; safes, vault 
or tellers (at the insured person’s premises); transits of cash/securities 
by banks using their own vehicles or staff; automated teller machines 
both on and off-site; customers’ safety deposit boxes; brokers/dealers for 
investor compensation insurance. Typically, war- and terrorism-related 
incidents are not covered by this insurance; however, organizations can 
pay an additional premium to have these included in a policy. This type 
of coverage can work in conjunction with, or completely separately to, 
the Bankers Blanket Bond insurance and in many cases it offers an addi-
tional coverage that the Banker’s Blanket Bond insurance does not (for 
example, cash inside customers’ safety deposit boxes is covered here but 
not by the Bankers Blanket Bond). This policy is commonly requested 
by the financial institutions that have stocks of cash or valuables on 
their premises or in transit, or have a liability towards their customers 
for their customers’ safety deposit boxes.
The insurance offer in favour of the financial institutions also 
includes the Crime Insurance policy. It is designed to protect the direct 
financial loss arising from any employee’s fraud or from a dishonest 
act of a third party. Purchasing crime coverage should form part of a 
comprehensive risk management strategy that helps to offset the finan-
cial burden from such losses, and that demonstrates the management’s 
awareness of a real threat.
There is also Cyber Insurance, which covers the losses related to dam-
age to, or loss of, information from IT systems and networks. The

--- Página 135 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        127
protections provided differ and include privacy protection: third party 
and employee privacy liability for damages and claims expenses result-
ing from privacy breach; privacy regulatory defence and penalties; repu-
tational risk extension resulting from data breach. Another form is the 
cyber liability protection, which includes the security liability for dam-
ages and claims expenses that the insured person is legally obliged to 
pay, as it arises from computer attacks caused by failure in security; neg-
ligent transmission of a virus (damage to a customers’ computer system 
and/or data); multimedia liability; intellectual property infringements. 
Other coverage is provided for data/electronic information loss (costs 
to restore data that has been lost or is corrupted); cyber extortion cov-
erage (covers both the costs of investigation and the extortion demand 
amount related to a threat of a computer attack).
A specific policy, the Directors and Officers Insurance (D&O), safe-
guards the civil liability of the top management of the bank and aims 
at protecting the directors and key managers (officers) against claims by 
shareholders, investors, employees, regulators, etc., who have been neg-
ligent in the performance of their duties. Negligent acts include breach 
of trust, breach of duty, neglect, error, misleading statements, wrongful 
trading, etc.
A policy offering a coverage that goes beyond that of a standard 
D&O is Employment Practices Liability; it provides protection for the 
institution and all its employees (directors, officers and temporary work-
ers). Such protection includes, among others, defence costs, mental 
anguish, emotional distress and regulatory investigations.
Finally, there is a type of insurance offering solutions to support 
the closing of Merger and Acquisitions (M&A) deals. In a challenging 
M&A climate, there has been a steady increase in the number of M&A 
deals where sellers are unwilling or unable to provide more than very 
basic warranties and indemnities. Escrow arrangements are often set 
in place to protect against unforeseen financial risks. However, escrows 
can be costly and have actually become less favourable in the current 
economic climate. An ideal alternative may be found in insurance 
solutions, which can offer a more cost-effective route in a wide range 
of transactions. For example, the buyer can arrange a policy to protect 
against any falsification or non-disclosure in relation to the warranties

--- Página 136 ---
128        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
and indemnities provided by the seller in forming the sale and purchase 
agreement. Sellers can arrange a policy to protect against claims by the 
buyer.
5.4.2	 Alternative Risk Transfer Mechanisms
The ART solutions appeared in the 1970s for initiative of operators of 
the insurance industry and of the capital market, interested in exploit-
ing potential synergies for the development of new opportunities for 
risk management. Although characterized by modest development, they 
pursue important purposes, such as the coverage of risks considered 
uninsurable, either for their large size and/or for very low frequency; 
reduction of the default risk of the insurance company; containment of 
premiums; possibility of avoiding the restricted offer in the traditional 
markets.
The classification of ART products distinguishes between risk transfer 
instruments via alternative operators (carriers) and, according to a more 
recent and broader meaning, the forms concentrated on risk financing.
Among the former, an important role is played by the captive com-
panies (Tagliavini 1994; Mendolia 2001; Pisani 1996) which, in the 
form of insurance/reinsurance companies of the property of a company/
group of companies not of an insurance nature, are set up to provide 
full or partial coverage for the risks assumed by the parent company. 
The creation of a captive company presents a number of advantages, 
especially in the medium-to-long term. Being under all aspects of an 
insurance/reinsurance company, a captive company represents a profit 
centre and an interesting opportunity to diversify business, with fore-
seeable benefits for the parent company. It is possible to reduce the 
total cost of risk management, as long as streamlining of the traditional 
insurance programmes is favoured, thanks to a greater bargaining power 
and to the concentration of insurance relations with a limited number 
of counterparties. Such positive aspects are yet associated with several 
issues. Firstly, the risk arising from the claims/premiums ratio, to which 
the captive is exposed, with the risk being more pronounced in the early 
years because of scarce financial strength that may be unable to absorb

--- Página 137 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        129
unexpected losses. The choice of the location of the captive can be diffi-
cult, given that the differences in the financial and taxation systems can 
have a significant impact on the operating costs of the company. Finally, 
another issue may be a certain organizational complexity connected, 
among others, to the need to create a strong coordination among the 
different operational functions.
With regard to the risk financing techniques, first consideration 
should be given to the finite risk programmes, the peculiarity of which 
is to share a single risk over time. It is in function of this variable that 
they are qualified as prospective (a guarantee for claims that have not 
yet occurred) and retrospective (to cover claims that have already taken 
place but have not yet been paid). Further distinctive features are the 
multi-year duration (3–5 years), which allows levelling of the losses on 
a fairly long term, thus reducing the volatility of the results over the 
period, and the sharing of these by the contractor. The burden of the 
operation depends on the results obtained, in that when the loss ratio 
exceeds the prefixed capacity, the additional premiums must be paid. By 
contrast, in the case of premium surplus, they are repaid or capitalized 
for further coverage.
Multiline integrated multi-year products are also available, where a 
single contractual scheme—also in this case multi-year—includes a vari-
ety of risks: the possibility of bringing together unrelated risks produces 
the undeniable benefit of lowering the volatility of the share of the risk 
retained in the portfolio.
Over the years, coping with some of the OR types has also occurred 
by turning to derivative contracts, such as the operational risk swap and 
the first loss-to-happen put. In the latter case, for example, the protec-
tion buyers decide both on the events from which they intend to pro-
tect themselves and on the maximum loss limit; in the case of a single 
event and the exceeding of the threshold, the seller of the put covers the 
loss, whereas if the events are multiple, the damage is higher.
The catastrophic nature that the operational losses may assume 
explains the interest in the catastrophe bonds issued as part of securiti-
zation operations.
As a rule, the firm intending to transfer the risks (sponsoring firm) 
subscribes the entire capital in a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) from

--- Página 138 ---
130        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
which it receives reinsurance coverage by signing a contract—namely, 
a reinsurance contract—linked, in terms of duration, nature of risk, 
amount and type of guarantee, to the characteristics of the bond issue: 
in fact SPV raises capital on the market by issuing catastrophe bonds. 
When a risky event takes place within a specified risk period, the risk 
benefit to be paid to the investors, in terms of interests, capital or both, 
is reduced according to the losses suffered by the sponsoring firm. The 
resources made available on the market, the returns deriving from 
their investment and the premiums paid by the issuer are the incom-
ing entries of SPV, necessary to comply with the commitments with the 
bondholders and the compensation to be paid to the sponsoring firms 
in the event of a claim. At least in part, the two output items are alter-
natives, given that in the absence of a catastrophic event the SPV must 
satisfy the investors entirely; otherwise, the investors stand reductions in 
proportion to the losses and the sponsoring firm is compensated.
5.5	
Conclusions
A comprehensive approach to operational risk management requires 
also appropriate risk mitigation and/or transfer strategies. Particular 
consideration must be given to the extent to which risk mitigation tools 
truly reduce risk, transfer the risk to another business sector or area, or 
create a new risk (e.g. counterparty risk).
Noteworthy developments could result in product innovation that 
would make insurance even more effective as surrogate capital support-
ing operational risk. As a related matter, banks could be required to 
systematically track details of coverage, terms and conditions, both to 
improve modelling of insurance recoveries, and to facilitate that product 
innovation.
Risk transfer or insurance is recognized by the regulator as a miti-
gation method only for the advanced approach (subject to a ceiling of 
20% of operational risk capital) and, to be eligible for capital at risk 
recognition, an insurance policy must be compliant with specific 
requirements. This has underlined the strategic importance of insurance 
portfolio management in banks. The development of the opportunities

--- Página 139 ---
5  Operational Risk Mitigation: Strategies and Tools        131
of insurance tools within the operational risk management may in fact 
contribute in reducing the capital charge and the economic impact 
linked to the operational losses.
Nevertheless, there are several challenges with the use of insurance. 
Among others, there is the difficulty in measuring (modelling) the 
extent of insurance’s mitigating effect, a pre-condition for any bank’s 
claim against capital. Moreover, AMA models are generally constructed 
around the Basel event types, while insurance programmes are built 
around discrete coverage: unfortunately the two taxonomies are often 
incompatible with one another.
References
Bazzarello, D., B. Crielaard., F. Piacenza., and A. Soprano. 2006. Modeling insur-
ance mitigation on operational risk capital. Journal of Operational Risk, March.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2009. Results from the 
2008 loss data collection exercise for operational risk, July.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision). 2010. Recognising the 
risk-mitigating impact of insurance in operational risk modelling, October.
Blacker, K. 2000. Mitigating operational risk in British retail banks. Risk 
Management 2 (3).
EBA (European Banking Authority). 2015. Final draft regulatory technical 
standards on the specification of the assessment methodology under which com-
petent authorities permit institutions to use advanced measurement approaches 
(AMA) for operational risk in accordance with Article 312 of Regulation (EU) 
No 575/2013, June.
Franzoso, F. 2005. La copertura dei rischi operativi mediante strumenti assi-
curativi. Corso di aggiornamento ASSBB—Universita Cattolica su Il rischio 
operativo nelle banche: metodologie di valutazione e strumenti di copertura 
assicurativa, 7–8 Giugno, Milano.
KPMG. 2008. Basel implementation worldwide, January.
Kuritzkes, A.P., and H.S. Scott. 2005. Sizing operational risk and the effect 
of insurance: Implications for the Basel II capital accord. In Capital ade-
quacy beyond Basel: Banking, securities, and insurance, ed. H.S. Scott. Oxford 
University Press.
Lemmi Gigli, N. 2005. Trasferimento del Rischio Operativo. V Convention 
Aifirm, Convegno Nazionale Risk Management, 20–21 Ottobre.

--- Página 140 ---
132        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Li J., S. Yi., J. Feng., and Y. Shi. 2011. Modelling the mitigation impact of insurance 
in Operational Risk management. Procedia Computer Science 4: 1668–1674.
Locatelli, R. 2001. I rischi operativi: I temi sul tappeto. In R. Locatelli, E. 
Magistretti, P. Scalerandi, and G. Carosio, Il rischio operativo, Giornate 
Romane dell’ASSBB, Roma, 9 Novembre, Quaderno n. 193.
Marzano, A. 2005. Il rischio operativo nelle banche: metodologie di valu­
tazione e strumenti di copertura assicurativa, Corso di aggiornamento 
ASSBB—Universita Cattolica su Il rischio operativo nelle banche: metodol-
ogie di valutazione e strumenti di copertura assicurativa, 7–8 Giugno, 
Milano.
Mendolia, A. 2001. Soluzioni alternative di trasferimento del rischio nel set-
tore assicurativo. Amministrazione & Finanza, n. 7.
Miani, S. 2004. La gestione dei rischi climatici e catastrofali. Torino: 
Giappichelli.
Peters, G.W., A.D. Byrnes., and P.V. Shevchenko. 2011. Impact of insurance 
for operational risk: Is it worthwhile to insure or to be insured for severe 
loss? Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 48, 287–303.
Pisani, R. 1996. Il processo di gestione: le politiche di finanziamento del 
rischio. In Risk management. Strumenti e politiche per la gestione dei rischi 
puri d’impresa, ed. G. Forestieri. Milano: Egea.
Scott, H.S., and H. Jackson. 2002. Operational risk insurance—Treatment 
under the new Basel Accord. Aino Bunge International Finance Seminar. 
Springer.
Sironi, A. 2003. Il rischio operativo: una nuova sfida per le banche italiane, 
Economia e Management, n. 1.
Sironi, A., and A. Resti. 2008. Rischio e valore nelle banche. Milano: Egea.
Tagliavini, P. 1994. La captive insurance company come strumento di risk man-
agement. Milano: Egea.
Vellella, M. 2005. La gestione dei rischi operativi nelle banche: Alcuni spunti 
di riflessione sulle scelte organizzative. Banche e Banchieri, n. 3.

--- Página 141 ---
6.1	
Introduction
The degree of flexibility that banks have had in operational risk model-
ling has fostered over the years the development of a variety of methods. 
Currently, these may be related to two categories, namely the loss distri-
bution approach and the scenario-based approach.
This chapter aims at analysing the specific features of both the meth-
odologies, highlighting strengths and weaknesses of each one. As it is not 
possible to state which approach is the best in absolute terms, according 
to the best practices, the combined use could be the preferable choice.
6.2	
The Loss Distribution Approach
The degree of flexibility that banks have had in operational risk model-
ling has fostered over the years the development of a variety of methods. 
Initially distinguished as the Internal Measurement Approach (IMA),1 
the Scorecard Approach (SA)2 and the Loss Distribution Approach 
(LDA), these methods have been recently reduced to two categories, 
namely the LDA and the Scenario-Based Approach (SBA). While the 
6
Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the 
Loss Distribution and Scenario-Based 
Approaches
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks, 
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_6
133

--- Página 142 ---
134        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
former is based on real loss, and the other on the expected loss, the use 
of a joint approach is not excluded as the information gathered from 
one method can complement the information obtained by the other, 
and vice versa.
In general, the models based on the LDA (see among others Dutta 
and Perry 2013), featuring a quantitative output, allow to estimate 
the expected loss directly and to increase the sensitivity of the capital 
requirement in relation to the intermediary’s true operational risk expo-
sure (Lemmi Gigli 2005; Savelli 2005; Guray Uner 2008). The LDA 
is a statistical method, widespread in the actuarial setting, that allows 
to calculate—starting from internal and external loss data and for each 
combination of BL-risk factors—both a frequency and a severity distri-
bution. The frequency distribution is the function of discrete density 
that expresses the number of loss events during a specific timeframe, 
while the severity distribution is a function of continuous density, 
which provides information on the event’s impact in terms of financial 
loss: by joining the (presumably) independent distributions, we obtain 
an aggregated distribution of losses. This latter is estimated for each BL, 
in order to obtain, through the sum of each Value at Risk (VaR), the 
definition of the total capital requirement. It is understood that the sim-
ple addition presupposes that the classes of events result perfectly cor-
related among each other, unless one turns to alternative aggregation 
procedures that can take correlation hypotheses into account.
Although LDA models presuppose some flexibility in their imple-
mentation, there are several common elements shared by many meth-
ods linked to this model family (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009). Such 
common elements (which will be dealt with in more detail in the next 
Sections) can be linked to the following:
•	 Calculation dataset
•	 Classes of operational risk
•	 Estimate of the loss severity distribution
•	 Estimate of the loss frequency distribution
•	 Distribution of yearly aggregate losses
•	 Risk class aggregation
•	 Calculation for risk capital.

--- Página 143 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        135
6.2.1	 Calculation Dataset
The calculation dataset refers to the set of available data used for the OR 
capital requirement. Its creation relies on the fundamental activation 
of procedures and software applications that allow the BUs involved to 
insert their losses in a centralized database. This generally involves also 
the use of external loss data (i.e. taken from external sources) as well as 
of scenario analysis based on expert opinions.
The dataset of internal losses is made up by the bank’s loss data and 
represents the main element in each LDA-like model. It generally 
includes information on the description of the event; the company (or 
other internal structure, such as sub-holding or business unit) that is 
hit by the loss; the overall loss caused by the event (sum of econom-
ical manifestations relevant for the loss); the date of occurrence; the 
date of detection; the date of accounting; the business line; the type of 
event; the potential crossing with other types of risk (e.g. market risk, 
credit risk).
Generally, each element within the internal loss dataset is composed 
of an operational event, such as a robbery, which is connected to a range 
of economical manifestations (damage caused to break in, loot, recovery) 
that must be aggregated within the overall loss. For the purpose of estab-
lishing the operational loss deriving from an event, the manifestations 
considered relevant are those which can have a negative impact such as 
losses and provisions. These can be subtracted from the recoveries, if 
they occur within a short time from the occurrence of the operational 
event. In such case, they are considered immediately recovered losses.
The loss events considered must fall within the observation period, 
i.e. the timeframe considered relevant for the calculation dataset. 
Legislation on the matter requires this timeframe to be at least of 
5 years—or exceptionally of 3 years in the initial period the model is 
applied.
As for the observation period, there is still no shared rule on the rele-
vant date but rather refer to a number of different types of dates relating 
to the operational risk event: occurrence date, detection date, accounting 
date, upload date, etc. In general, the date of occurrence can be consid-
ered reliable for the bank’s risk profile, although not all events may fall

--- Página 144 ---
136        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
within the dataset as, for example, in the case of a lawsuit due to internal 
fraud where the date of occurrence of the event and the date of effective 
loss can be years apart. If this time lapse were longer than 5 years, this 
event might indeed not fall within the dataset used for the calculation. 
Hence, especially from the regulator’s point of view the date of detection 
and of accounting might be preferable. Yet, while the accounting date 
can be confirmed more easily and recovered within the bank, the date 
of detection may be more difficult to confirm. In any case, the choice of 
the accounting date is quite conservative: theoretically, it would be possi-
ble to include in the dataset losses that have occurred many years earlier 
and which no longer represent the bank’s risk profile. In this case it may 
be useful to set a period of observation for the date of occurrence as well 
as the one defined for the accounting date.
The relevant date for the purposes of calculating the capital require-
ment is not the only hurdle involved in identifying the correct database. 
Indeed, operational losses often show a number of economic impacts 
that can stretch over a number of years. Therefore it is important to 
understand how they can be aggregated. Among the several options, 
one could be articulated with the following steps:
•	 Consider only the economic impacts relating to the validated events 
(in the case of the establishment of a validation and control process 
for operational events)
•	 Take into consideration all the economic impacts recorded during 
the observation period
•	 Adjust the amounts of economic impacts for inflation
•	 Calculate the total operational loss of the event as the sum of losses, 
provisions and recoveries, considering the losses and provisions as a 
positive and recoveries negative. In this step it is also possible that 
the bank deduct the losses promptly retrieved. If the same opera-
tional event impacts on different companies, each of them should 
report the event and the economic impacts falling under its compe-
tence. These events must then be aggregated into a single multiple 
event having as total loss the sum of the losses of the single events by 
which it is composed. In general, even different operational events 
that are apparently interdependent should be aggregated into a single

--- Página 145 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        137
loss. On the other hand, operational events from different risk classes 
should not be aggregated, unless the bank decides to assign the entire 
multiple event to the risk class in which it has the greatest impact
•	 Once the aggregation process ends, select operational events having 
total losses higher or equal to the minimum threshold considered
•	 Exclude cross-operational events with credit risk.
For what concerns the dataset of external losses, we must emphasize that 
the purpose of the use of external data is to complement data on events 
with low frequency and high severity which internal data alone could 
not provide. External data can be retrieved either from consortium 
databases (such as the DIPO, the Italian database of operating losses at 
national level and the ORX Operational Risk eXchange at international 
level) or from public databases such as the Algo OpData (Bazzarello and 
Piacenza 2009).
The external data used, however, must be consistent with internal 
data in order to be suitable for inclusion into the calculation dataset. 
This requires establishing internal processes that focus on and verify the 
consistency of classifications of external and internal data. Accordingly, 
cross-operational events with credit risk and events having a date out-
side of the observation period, for example, would be excluded from the 
dataset.
One of the major problems in the treatment of the external data 
is to determine whether and how they should be subject to scal-
ing (on the topic consult, among others, Torresetti and Nordio 2014; 
Abdymomunov and Curti 2016). In fact, external data must be treated 
appropriately, in order to increase the accuracy and robustness of the 
estimates without undermining the model’s results due to inconsisten-
cies with internal data. The main approaches employ as scaling factors 
some dimensional indicators, such as intermediation margin, number 
of employees and number of branches. In particular, there has been 
the proposal of a scaling rule based on the linear correlation between 
the logarithm of the losses and the logarithm of the dimensional indi-
cator (Shih et al. 2000). However, the correlation estimates obtained 
are generally very low, for which the external data scaled in fact remain 
unchanged compared to the original values.

--- Página 146 ---
138        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
These results show that the dimensional indicators may be not entirely 
suitable for the scaling of the external data. An alternative would be to 
use indicators related to the statistical properties of the data, such as the 
mean or median. On the other hand, any scaling methodology can be 
viewed as manipulation of data, aimed to influence the results as wanted. 
It is also noteworthy to mention that even the internal data of a bank 
come from subsidiaries differ in both size and activity; hence, on the 
basis of the logic of the external data scaling, so should internal data be 
scaled as well. In light of these considerations, it might be preferable not 
to scale external data, in favour of the construction of a computational 
model that can treat them appropriately using their original amounts.
6.2.2	 Classes of Operational Risk
Besides the definition of the calculation database, another central ele-
ment of LDA type models is the determination of the model’s granu-
larity. This essentially means determining what granularity to use for 
modelling data and thus establish the procedures for identifying the risk 
classes. The loss data should in fact be divided into homogeneous cate-
gories that internally satisfy the i.i.d. hypothesis. Such classes are known 
as OR classes and their number determines the greater or lesser granu-
larity of the model.
In particular the OR class is defined as a homogeneous category in 
terms of risks included and data available for the analysis. Some exam-
ples of classes of risk are event type, business line, combination event 
type/business line, society and cause.
When an LDA model is applied, it is assumed that the data belong-
ing to the same class of risk are independent and identically distributed. 
The legislation requires testing these hypotheses for the data belonging 
to the same class of OR as a prerequisite for robust modelling. Below, 
we describe some useful techniques for these purposes and for the pur-
poses of homogeneity and independence, as well as any seasonal and 
stationary trends (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009).
For the purposes of the identical distribution of risk classes, it is 
necessary to emphasize that an OR class is a risk category composed

--- Página 147 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        139
of homogeneous data. The identification of classes must consider the 
trade-off between homogeneity and availability of data. In fact, increas-
ing the number of classes (i.e. the granularity of the model) increases 
homogeneity, but lowers the amount of data available for the estimates 
in each class; by contrast, decreasing the number of classes increases the 
data available, but the data in each class are less homogeneous.
As it is well known, one of the requirements of the AMA models is 
to classify the data on losses gathered by type of event and BL, the com-
bination of which may be regarded as minimal risk class, thus ensuring 
a high degree of homogeneity. This classification is, however, difficult 
to apply in the calculation model, due to insufficient data available for 
some classes. One possible solution could be classifying the data either 
by type of event or by business line alone. In this case, the availability of 
the data would no longer be critical but would still require homogene-
ity be verified by means of grouping analysis (cluster analysis). Starting 
from n elements, performing n − 1 consecutive aggregations leads to a 
single group. In order to do this, a measure of dissimilarity between the 
elements must be defined (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009). In this case 
the n elements are the minimal risk classes BLxET, while the measure of 
dissimilarity between elements i and j can be defined as
where pv(i,j) represents the p-value of the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test 
applied to samples i and j. This test, in the two-sample version, assesses 
whether these have the same probability distribution. Accordingly, this 
tests the hypothesis:
This uses the statistics T = supx_ F1 (x) – F2 (x)_, the greatest verti-
cal distance between two functions of empirical probability. Applying 
this algorithm to each of the n − 1 iterations, the distances between 
all residual groups are calculated and the groups having the minimum 
distance are aggregated into a single group. The distances between the 
groups can be calculated with the method of the means: the distance 
d(i, j) = 1 −pv(i, j)
H0 : F1(x) = F2(x)∀x
H1 : F1(x) = F2(x) for at least one value of x

--- Página 148 ---
140        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
between two groups is defined as the mean of the dissimilarity between 
the elements of a group and the elements of the other group.
In order to choose between classification by event type or BL, the level 
of aggregation of the minimal classes BLxET can be tested in two ways:
•	 business lines are considered as risk classes. The purpose is to deter-
mine the level of dissimilarity at which the aggregation is affected 
between the BLxET cells that form each individual business line: 

dBL
1 , . . . , dBL
8

•	 event types are considered as risk classes. The purpose is to determine 
the level of dissimilarity at which the aggregation is affected between 
the BLxET cells that form each event type 

dET
1 , . . . , dET
7

.
One criterion for selecting one of the two classifications might be com-
paring the highest among the aggregate distances obtained for the type 
of event and the highest among the aggregate distances obtained for the 
business lines. Therefore, the classification by type of event is preferred 
if: max

dET
1 , . . . , dET
7

< max

dBL
1 , . . . , dBL
8

.
Conversely, the classification for business line will be used. The 
results of each cluster analysis can be represented by graphs known as 
dendrograms.
To increase the homogeneity of the data from a temporal point 
of view, it is useful to consider the effect of inflation (Bazzarello and 
Piacenza 2009). To this end, each loss included in the calculation data-
set can be scaled, for example, from the CPI (Consumer Price Index) 
on a monthly basis. It may be worth considering as a reference date the 
date of accounting of the event, although other dates could be used in 
case of unavailability (e.g. occurrence, detection). The loss adjusted for 
inflation can be calculated as follows:
where,
A is the original loss amount
A′ is the loss adjusted for inflation
A′ = A × CPI(MRD)
CPI(MAD)

--- Página 149 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        141
MRD is the month to which the calculation refers to (generally the 
end of the observation period)
MAD is the month to which the loss refers to
CPI(MRD) is the CPI value for the MRD
CPI(MAD) is the CPI value for the MAD
For the consistency of the model it is important that the adjustment 
for inflation be applied also to the minimum loss detection threshold, 
so that events relating to past years, and that had not been considered 
before because of the lowest amount, do not exceed the threshold only 
for the effect of inflation.
Once homogeneity has been considered, it is necessary to test the 
hypothesis of independence of loss data within a same risk class. When 
referring to the dependence of the data in a same class we speak of 
implicit correlation in order to distinguish with respect to the corre-
lation between different classes (explicit correlation). Intuitively, the 
dependence in the same class of risk should be greater than the depend-
ence between different classes, since data belonging to a same category 
are more similar by definition. Nevertheless, academia and regulators 
have devoted more attention to the explicit correlation.
The independence of the data in the same risk class can be analysed 
using autocorrelation graphs applied to loss data sorted by date. If the 
data were to show a significant level of autocorrelation for some time 
delay, it would be necessary to aggregate the dependent events in a single 
total loss. Since the uniformity in the definition of risk classes had pre-
viously been addressed, the requirement of identical distribution of risk 
class would have to be reasonably verified (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009).
Finally, in applying the classical LDA models, it is assumed that the 
data analysed are stationary: that is, it is given that the estimated param-
eters are independent of the time (data do not feature temporal trends). 
The non-stationarity of data can be detected applying the smoothing 
functions to the time series of annual losses aggregated both in terms of 
severity and frequency, in order to facilitate the detection of trends. In 
the event non-stationarity is detected, the model needs to be modified 
to yield the correct estimate of risk capital, increasing for example the 
weight of the latest data in parameter estimates. On the other hand, the

--- Página 150 ---
142        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
scarce profoundness of the time series available does not allow detecting 
these behaviours with a high degree of confidence.
As to the season trends—that is the cyclical behaviour of data—this 
can be detected by using autocorrelation graphs applied to aggregated 
losses over different periods (week, month, trimester, year, and so on). 
Considering that the operational risk capital is measured on a yearly 
basis, the seasonal trend on shorter periods is non-relevant. On the 
other hand, the seasonal trend at annual level can be barely appreciated 
because of the shallow deepness of the time series.
6.2.3	 Estimate of the Loss Severity Distribution
The probability distribution of the individual loss is estimated for each 
class of risk. Typically, this is performed through the application of par-
ametric models, i.e. probability function having a number of parameters 
(usually 2–4) that identify the type. The parameters are estimated on 
loss data belonging to the class analysed employing one of the methods 
available (for example, maximum likelihood). The choice of both the 
parametric model and the method for estimation of parameters must 
be made in a way that will yield the best possible fit to the data loss. 
This point is crucial in the implementation of an LDA model, since an 
incorrect determination of the severity distribution, especially in the tail 
area, can lead to a non-reasonable estimate of risk capital.
One of the main issues with LDA models is therefore the correct 
identification of the severity distribution, herein defined as a continuous 
random variable X and described with the function fX(x, θ), where θ is 
the parameter or the vector of the parameters (Bazzarello and Piacenza 
2009).
To select the distribution that best fits the data loss, both analytical 
and graphical methods are available. Among the graphical methods, the 
most widely used is the quantile–quantile plots (q q-plot), which allows 
assessing the goodness-of-fit of data in the distribution tail, the part 
that most influences the estimation of risk capital. The method consists 
in comparing graphically the empirical and the estimated quintiles.

--- Página 151 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        143
Given the orderly samples of losses x(1) ≤x(2) ≤· · · ≤x(n), the graph 
is built representing the following points:
If the points represented fall around the bisector, that means there is a 
good fit to data.
If the loss data are collected only above the threshold H, the points to 
represent are the following:
where:
F∗(x) =
 F(x)−F(H)
1−F(H)
x ≥H
0
x < H is the function of conditional probabil-
ity for the left-truncation;
F∗−1(p) = F−1(p(1 −F(H)) + F(H)) 0 ≤p ≤1 is the condi-
tioned quantile function for the left-truncation.
Among the analytical models, we shall remember the goodness-of-
fit tests of Kolmogorov–Smirnov and of Anderson–Darling. Supposing 
that the sample x1, . . . , xn is the creation of random variables having 
identical distribution of risk classes with a cumulative probability func-
tion F(x), we test the following hypotheses:
H0 (main hypothesis): the sample shows a cumulative probability 
function F(x)
H1 (alternative hypothesis): the sample’s distribution is not function 
of cumulative probability F(x)
The statistics of the goodness-of-fit test is a measure of the distance 
between the empirical probability function and the estimated probabil-
ity function.
The Anderson–Darling is more useful for measuring OR, since it 
gives a greater weight to the distribution tail. If the data are truncated to 

x(i), F−1

i
n + 1

: i = 1, . . . , n


x(i), F∗−1

i
n + 1

: i = 1, . . . , n

--- Página 152 ---
144        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
the left with an H threshold, the probability function F(x) needs to be 
replaced with the conditioned function for left-truncation F∗(x).
To evaluate the test result, we may calculate the P-value, that is the 
value by which 1−(P-value) is the maximum confidence level by which 
the main hypothesis can be rejected. Hence, the greater the P-value, the 
better the data fit to the distribution. Accordingly, the best distribution 
among those tested will be the one presenting the greatest P-value. The 
computation of the P-value can be achieved by the Monte Carlo simula-
tion (Chernobai et al. 2005) or the use of pre-computed tables, and in 
any case, using the most common statistics programs.
The selection of the best distribution should be done with the joint 
use of graphical and analytical methods, while avoiding automatic 
methods since, for example, the change of distribution between two 
consecutive analyses could compromise the stability of the results.
In estimating the severity of the operational losses, determining a 
distribution that will fit well data in both “body” and tail can be com-
plex. Therefore, it might be useful using two different distributions for 
estimating the severity: one representing the low-impact high-frequency 
losses, i.e. the “body”—and another the high-impact low-frequency 
losses, i.e. the tail. The tail can be estimated by considering the Extreme 
Value Theory (EVT).
Let X be a random variable having cumulative probability function F. 
Given the threshold u, the excess distribution function over u is
For a broad class of functions F, the limit distribution for u → ∞ of 
the excesses is called the Generalized Pareto distribution (GPD), and is 
as follows:
The function of probability is
Fu(y) = Pr(X −u ≤y|X > u).
G(x; ξ, µ, β) =



1 −

1 + ξ x−µ
β
−1/ξ
if ξ = 0
1 −e−(x−µ)/β
if ξ = 0
where :
x ≥0
if ξ ≥0
0 ≤x ≤µ −β
ξ if ξ < 0
g(x; ξ, µ, β) =



1
β

1 + ξ x−µ
β
−1
ξ −1
if ξ = 0
1
β e−(x−µ)/β
if ξ = 0
where :
x ≥0
if ξ ≥0
0 ≤x ≤µ −β
ξ if ξ < 0

--- Página 153 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        145
where ξ ∈R and β > 0 are the parameters shape and scale, respec-
tively. µ is the location parameter set equal to the threshold u ( ˆµ = u). 
If ξ > 0 then distribution is said to be thick tailed, as in most cases of 
operational risks (Embrechts 2000).
The EVT approach requires the definition of a threshold u, beyond 
which observations are considered as extreme. Such choice is pivotal 
since it determines the number of observations useful for the estimation 
and the quality of the observations exceeding the threshold.
In fact, too low a threshold implies the use of a high number of 
observations, but at the same time does not guarantee that such obser-
vations are extreme data, increasing the distortion; too high a threshold 
should ensure that the exceeding observations are extreme values, yet 
their limited number reduces the quality of the estimates, increasing the 
variance.
An appropriate threshold value can be determined using the graph of 
the empirical function of the mean of the excesses, which, in addition 
to a high enough threshold value, should follow a linear behaviour:
Once the threshold is identified, the GPD parameters can be deter-
mined using the method of maximum likelihood or, in the case in 
which very limited data is available (frequent for operational risks) 
using the Probability Weighted Moments (PWM) method instead. 
This method (PWM) ensures a better robustness of the estimates and 
a greater stability compared to variation of the threshold (Hosking and 
Wallis 1987).
In literature there are many examples which suggest applying EVT 
for OR measurement (Aue and Kalkbrener 2007; Chapelle et al. 2004; 
Moscadelli 2004; Romano and Di Clemente 2003). Conversely, other 
authors (Dutta and Perry 2013; Mignola and Uguccioni 2005) high-
light the issues that may be encountered using this method, such as 
the lack of fit to data, the instability in relation to the variation of the 
threshold, the calculation of results which are too conservative.
e(u) = E(X −u|X > u) = β + ξu
1 −ξ

--- Página 154 ---
146        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
6.2.4	 Estimate of Loss Frequency Distributions
For each risk class, the probability distribution of the numerosity of 
annual losses is determined. Usually the simpler models such as the 
Poisson distribution are used (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009).
6.2.5	 Distribution of Yearly Aggregate Losses
For each risk class, the probability distribution of annual losses is deter-
mined starting from the severity and frequency distributions. Because it 
is not possible to represent this distribution by means of a closed shape, 
numerical techniques such as the Monte Carlo simulation, are used 
instead (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009).
6.2.6	 Risk Class Aggregation
The total risk capital can be calculated simply as the sum of the various 
risk capitals for all classes.
Defining VaR(h), h = 1, 2, . . . , H as the Value at Risk (VaR)  calcu-
lated on the distribution of losses relating to class h, then
Using this method is equivalent to assuming that the various classes 
of risk are perfectly dependent. It is reasonable to think that this 
assumption is too conservative and that there is diversification across 
risk classes. One method for incorporating the diversification effect is 
based on the use of the copula function (e.g. Gaussian, Student’s or 
Archimedean).
Let X = (X1, . . . , Xn) be the vector of the n random variables, with 
marginal probability function F1, . . . , Fn. The multivariate probability 
function:
VaR(total) =
H

h=1
VaR(h)
F(x1, . . . , xn) = P[X1 ≤x1, . . . , Xn ≤xn]

--- Página 155 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        147
determines full the dependence structure of the variables X1, . . . , Xn.
However, because its analytical representation is often too complex, it 
is practically impossible to estimate and to use it in the models.
The use of the copula function allows overcoming the issue of esti-
mating the multivariate probability function in the following way: first 
we determine the marginal probability functions F1, . . . , Fn repre-
senting the distributions of each random variable; then we determine 
the dependency structure of the variables X1, . . . , Xn by specifying an 
appropriate copula function (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009).
An n-dimensional copula is a multivariate probability function C 
with marginal functions distributed evenly [0,1] (U(0, 1)), so that
1.	C : [0, 1]n →[0, 1];
2.	C 
has 
marginal 
functions 
Ci 
so 
that 
Ci(u) = C(1, . . . , 1, u, 1, . . . , 1) = u ∀u ∈[0, 1].
Therefore, if F1, . . . , Fn are univariate distribution functions, 
C(F1(x1), . . . , Fn(xn)) is a function of multivariate distribution with 
marginal functions F1, . . . , Fn, since ui = Fi(xi), i = 1, . . . n is a uni-
form random variable. Accordingly, the copula functions can be used to 
build and simulate multivariate distributions.
The following theorem is crucial to the practical application of cop-
ula functions (Sklar 1959). If F is a function of n-dimension probabil-
ity marginal functions F1, . . . , Fn, then it has a single representation 
through the copula function:
From this theorem we see that for continuous multivariate probability 
functions:
•	 univariate marginal functions and multivariate dependence structure 
can be separated;
•	 the dependence structure can be represented through an appropriate 
copula.
F(x1, . . . , xn) = C(F1(x1), . . . , Fn(xn))

--- Página 156 ---
148        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
From Sklar’s theorem we derive the following corollary. Let F be a dis-
tribution function with n-dimensional continuous marginal functions 
F1, . . . , Fn and copula C (which satisfied the theorem). Then
where F−1
i  is the inverse of Fi.
The following sections describe some of the main copula functions 
used to measure operational risks.
The Gaussian copula (or normal) is the copula of the multivariate 
normal distribution. In fact, if the random vector X = (X1, . . . , Xn) is 
composed of independent and normally distributed variables:
•	 the univariate marginal functions F1, . . . , Fn are Gaussian;
•	 the dependence structure between the marginal distributions can be 
described by a single copula CGa
R  (The Gaussian copula), so that
where R is the function of the multivariate standard normal probabil-
ity function with correlation matrix R =

ρij

 and φ−1 is the inverse of 
the standard univariate Gaussian probability function.
The Gaussian copula parameter can be estimated deriving it from 
Kendall’s correlation coefficients, applying the following transformation:
where ρτ is Kendall’s coefficient and ρ is the correlation coefficient used 
as the Gaussian copula parameter. The matrix obtained could be non-
semidefinite positive. In such case we shall apply a transformation based 
on the eigenvalues method (McNeil et al. 2005).
In order to simulate random variables of the Gaussian copula, the fol-
lowing procedure is followed.
If the matrix R is positive-definite, there is a matrix A sized n × n 
so that R = AAT. Moreover, we suppose that the random variables 
Z1, . . . , Zn are normal independent standards. Then, given the vec-
tor µ ∈Rn, the random vector µ + AZ (where Z = (Z1, . . . , Zn)T) 
is multinormal, with mean vector µ and covariance matrix R. The 
C(u1, . . . , un) = F(F−1
1 (u1), . . . , F−1
n (un))
∀µ = (u1, . . . , un) ∈[0, 1]n,
CGa
R (u1, . . . , un) = R(φ−1(u1), . . . , φ−1(un)),
ρ = sin
π
2 ρτ

,

--- Página 157 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        149
matrix A can be established easily applying the Cholesky factorization 
to the matrix R. This yields an individual lower triangular matrix L so 
that LLT = R. Therefore, random variables can be generated by the 
n-dimensional Gaussian copula using the following algorithm:
•	 apply the Cholesky factorization A to the matrix R;
•	 simulate the determinations of n independent standard normal ran-
dom variables z1, . . . , zn;
•	 pose x = Az;
•	 determine the components ui = φ(xi), i = 1, . . . , n;
•	 the resulting vector, (u1, . . . , un)T is the creation of a n-dimensional 
Gaussian copula, CGa
R .
Likewise, the t is the copula function of the multivariate Student distri-
bution.
Let X = (X1, . . . , Xn) be a random vector with multivariate t distri-
bution with ν degrees of freedom. The copula of the vector X can be 
represented as follows:
where R is the correlation matrix.
tn
ν,R denotes the multivariate probability function of the random 
variable √νY
√
S. The random variable S ∼χ2
ν and the vector Y are 
independent.
tν denotes the margins of tn
ν,R.
The R correlation matrix for the Student’s t copula can be estimated 
in the same way as the Gaussian copula, while the number of degrees of 
freedom ν can be determined using the maximum likelihood method.
To carry out random sampling by Student’s t copula we can use the 
following algorithm:
•	 perform a Cholesky factorization A of R;
•	 simulate n random independent variables z1, . . . , zn from the stand-
ard normal distribution;
•	 simulate a random variable, s, from the distribution χ2
υ, independent 
from z;
Ct
ν,R(u1, . . . , un) = tν,R(t−1
ν (u1), . . . , t−1
ν (un))

--- Página 158 ---
150        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 determine the vector y = Az;
•	 calculate x =
√υ
√s y;
•	 determine the components ui = tυ(xi), i = 1, . . . , n;
•	 the resulting vector, (u1, . . . , un)T, represents a random simulation 
from a n-dimensional copula t Ct
υ,R
It is generally believed that the fit of data to Student’s t copula is better 
than the fit to the Gaussian copula. This is due to the capability of cop-
ula t to capture the dependency between extreme events. Such property 
is called tail dependence. Moreover, the copula t represents a generaliza-
tion of the Gaussian copula, as it can be linked to it in the events the 
number of degrees of freedom ν tend to +∞ (Aas 2004; Demarta and 
McNeil 2005; Romano 2002; Romano and Di Clemente 2003).
The copula’s dependency parameter can be estimated with a rank 
correlation (e.g. Kendall, Spearman), since the more traditional lin-
ear correlation (Pearson) sets the hypothesis of normality of the ran-
dom variables, which is not realistic in the case of operational risk. 
Alternatively, it is possible to estimate parameters using the maximum 
likelihood method. As the requirement needs to be determined on a 
one year time horizon, accordingly the dependency structure shall be 
identified on a yearly level. However, the scarce deepness of the time 
series available for OR would not allow an accurate and robust estimate. 
Another alternative would be to estimate the correlation by month. In 
fact, if there is not a dependency between the monthly aggregate losses 
in each category of risk, the same dependence structure can be trans-
posed at annual level (Chapelle et al. 2004). To verify that the trans-
position can be truly made for a certain class of risk, an analysis of 
autocorrelation between the monthly losses can be performed. If there 
are no significant autocorrelations when repeating the analysis for each 
class, the estimated correlation at monthly level can be used without 
distorting the final results.
To determine the distribution of the total annual losses, con-
sidering the exact structure of dependence between the risk classes 
through a copula function, the Monte Carlo simulation can be 
used. It is given that the yearly cumulative probability distributions 
FS(h), h = 1, . . . , H have already been obtained for each risk class.

--- Página 159 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        151
The distribution function of the total annual losses is obtained by the 
following steps, that shall be repeated a high number of J times (for 
example J = 1.000.000):
•	 generate a representation of the random multivariate vector 
¯u = (u1, . . . , uH) with uniformly distributed marginals on [0,1] by a 
determined copula C;
•	 this yields a loss scenario for each type of risk sj(h), h = 1, . . . H by 
applying to the representation above the inverse cumulative probabil-
ity distribution FS(h) 

sj(h) = F−1
S(h)(uh)

;
•	 this yields a scenario for the total annual loss, sj(total), summing the 
losses sj(h) for each h = 1, . . . H, that is: sj(total) =
H
h=1
sj(h).
This results in a simulated empirical distribution of the total losses, 
from which the total VaR can be calculated as 99.9% quantile (see 
below).
6.2.7	 Calculation for Risk Capital
Once the total annual loss distribution has been calculated, the risk cap-
ital can be calculated using a measure of risk. The most used measure in 
the finance field is the VaR. The VaR with confidence level α is defined 
as quantile of level α (0 < α < 1). In the case of ORs, capital charges 
must be calculated considering a one year time horizon and a confi-
dence interval of 99.9%. Accordingly, the risk capital can be determined 
as VaR with a 99.9% confidence level calculated on the distribution of 
the total annual losses (Bazzarello and Piacenza 2009).
6.3	
The Scenario-Based Approach
In the scenario-based models the capital estimate for operational risk 
is achieved by means of subjective assessment, rather than by means of 
loss data.

--- Página 160 ---
152        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
The scenario-based approach (SBA) literature documents widespread 
convergence for the meaning of the term “scenario” as the descrip-
tion of a possible sequence of events that includes an assessment of the 
likelihood of the event occurring and an estimate of the severity of the 
expected adverse consequences (Laycock 2014). Therefore, each risk sce-
nario should describe a risk event, the likelihood of its occurrence, and 
its financial impact on the company. Other definitions describe scenar-
ios as plausible alternatives about the future environment or, as “pur-
poseful stories about how the contextual environment could unfold in 
time” (Burt et al. 2006); moreover, Lubbe and Snyman (2010) define 
risk scenario as a prospective risk exposure estimate. The scenario-based 
AMA Working Group (sbAMA Working Group 2003) distinguishes 
scenarios into two types (a generic scenario and a stress scenario), 
defined as something tangible that could happen in the future (i.e. a 
potential event). In particular, a generic scenario is a scenario that is 
derived from a generic class of scenarios (such as break-down of criti-
cal IT) by applying it to a defined area, while a stress scenario is a sce-
nario of potentially high severity that is taken from a class of very rarely 
occurring potential events. Actually, the SBA can be classified as a stress 
testing, which is a method of exploring the effect of low probability 
events that lie outside the predictive capacity of any statistical model on 
Value at Risk (Chernobai et al. 2007). Similarly, the BIS Committee on 
the Global Financial System (2005) defines stress testing as “a generic 
term describing various techniques used by financial firms to gauge 
their potential vulnerability to exceptional, extreme or simply unex-
pected but plausible events”.
Scenarios foresee assessments be made by one or more experts. The 
use of multiple expert assessment presents the advantage of mitigating 
some biases that may arise (see below), such as anchoring bias, which 
might occur when an individual responds alone. Yet, multiple expert 
assessment may present some issues, as for example the bank’s burden 
of having to identify the method of combining these multiple assess-
ments. In this respect, the most common methods in use are basically 
two (Jenkinson 2005):

--- Página 161 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        153
•	 The mathematical approach, in which the assessments are first elic-
ited individually and then aggregated using a weighting approach. 
The weights can depend on the level of expertise of each expert.
•	 The behavioural approach, which invites a group of experts to share 
information among themselves, and then establish a consensus assess-
ment.
The second method is generally preferred, as it promotes discussion 
of operational risk between the experts and increases awareness of risk 
exposures for management purposes (Oakley and O’Hagan 2004).
The individuals chosen as subject matter experts should have exten-
sive personal experience and significant knowledge and understanding 
of their business and the environment in which they operate. According 
to Segal (2011), when risk assessment is conducted by means of a sur-
vey, the participants should include the chief executive, risk, technol-
ogy, financial and investment officers, heads of major business segments, 
heads of compliance and strategic planning as well as experienced per-
sonnel in the industry and in the company.
In the scenario-based approach, a critical feature is the involve-
ment of a facilitator, especially for its role in providing experts a clear 
description of the risk’s boundaries (in which risk falls within the scope 
of the discussion and which does not) and a definition of the process 
and expected outputs. Just as important is also the facilitator’s ability in 
providing participants an effective presentation of the relevant internal 
and external loss data and Business Environment and Internal Control 
Factors (BEICFs)  data, which represent an important source of infor-
mation to stimulate discussion and an objective context within which 
the panel of experts can assess the realism of their ideas and of the esti-
mates being generated (AG-Advanced Measurement Approaches Group 
2012).
In generating relevant scenarios, a first issue is the selection of types 
of event to consider. One first group could be, for instance, historical 
events (such as unauthorized trading occurred in many banking scan-
dals; see Chap. 2). Historical events that have taken place at other

--- Página 162 ---
154        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
institutions represent external data. However, generating scenario data 
by mainly using external data, and without considering many other 
hypothetical situations, may defeat the purpose of the scenario (Babbel 
and Dutta 2012). Therefore, the best and most widely used diffuse way 
is to consider a second group of scenarios: the hypothetical scenarios, 
which are based on some plausible risk events that have not yet occurred 
but which still have a non-zero probability of occurring. A scenario 
might also be based on the analysis of a new product that a bank will 
soon be offering to its clients (Rippel and Teply 2008).
A typical problem in the assessment process performed by the par-
ticipants is the existence of factors that can affect their ability to pro-
vide unbiased estimates, especially with regard to rare and large events. 
Namely, biases are defined as discrepancies between participants’ 
responses and an accurate description of their underlying knowledge 
(Spetzler and Von Holstein 1975)3 and are distinguished according to 
the following classification:
•	 Subconscious, or judgemental biases, if deriving from limitations in 
one’s memory or information processing capacity.
•	 Conscious, or motivational biases, if arising when the participant has 
an interest in influencing the results of the analysis.
More specifically, biases can be distinguished as (Watchorn 2007; BCBS 
2009; Gregoriou 2009):
•	 Availability: bias arising from the overestimation of events with 
which respondents had closer or more recent contact, which could 
thus bias the process of identifying the relevant scenarios to be 
assessed. Availability bias can also affect assessments on frequency of 
an event, which may be overstated if a relevant event is in close prox-
imity (i.e. if the event has occurred recently in the market in which 
the participants operate, or if they have personally experienced one).
•	 Anchoring: bias arising in quantitative estimates by experts; experts 
start from an initial value (anchor) and then adjust it to yield their 
final answer. The subsequent adjustment from the anchor is typically

--- Página 163 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        155
insufficient and leads experts to overestimate success probabilities and 
to underestimate failure probabilities.
•	 Overconfidence: bias arising from the underestimation of risk due to 
the small number of observed events.
•	 Motivational: bias arising from the misrepresentation of informa-
tion due to respondents’ interests in conflict with the goals and con-
sequences of the assessment. Respondents often take on a defensive 
attitude when asked to estimate extreme losses for their business unit. 
Therefore, motivational biases can lead to the understatement of fre-
quency and impact assessments, overstatement of the effectiveness 
of controls, and understatement of the uncertainty surrounding the 
assessments made.
•	 Partition dependence: bias ensuing when the respondents’ knowl-
edge is distorted by discrete choices or buckets within which their 
responses had to be represented; this may lead to underestimation of 
low-frequency events and overestimation of high-frequency events, 
depending on the experts’ experiences.
•	 Framing: bias arising when outcomes from questionnaires (i.e. prob-
ability estimates) are sensitive to the phrasing and the order of ques-
tions used.
•	 Representativeness: bias arising when experts link the event under 
assessment to another similar event and hence derive their estimates 
from the probability of that similar event.
Scenario assessments should also be validated. A rigorous valida-
tion foresees the involvement of an independent party, who shall first 
confirm that the process has been carried out in all its parts and then 
validate the quantification results. Validation can identify and correct 
assessments that are illogical, inconsistent or incoherent (Clemen and 
Fox 2005; Oakely and O’Hagan 2004). The validator can be a person 
at any level of the organization: at higher level such as a Director or 
an Executive General Manager, lower levels (topic experts, for example 
from IT or HR), or transversal to the organization (such as the group 
operational risk function). Otherwise, the validator may be external; 
in either case, because the person conducting the validation may bring 
its own biases into the process, suitable mitigation techniques must be

--- Página 164 ---
156        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
enforced in order to overcome such biases. Validation can be performed 
relying on external loss data which can be used by the validator pro-
vided in support of validating the quantification results. As identified 
by the scenario-based AMA Working Group (sbAMA Working Group 
2003), five techniques can be used in the validation of scenario assess-
ments:
•	 the “two pairs of eyes principle”;
•	 internal audit of the risk assessment process;
•	 comparison of actual losses against experts’ expectations;
•	 comparison of the outcome of scenario assessments against internal 
audit findings;
•	 challenge by group functions such as risk.
Having a normative expert in the validation process can be crucial 
in identifying any biases affecting the assessments. Normative experts 
can look for and challenge inconsistencies, and can reveal which infor-
mation is most readily available, any anchors that are being used, and 
whether any implicit assumptions are being made (Watchorn 2007).
In addition to validation, a reviewing process is also fundamental. 
In the case of regularly used scenarios the review process must pursue 
two objectives: determine the ongoing relevance of the scenarios and the 
validity of the quantification results. In the former case, it is necessary 
to determine whether a past scenario (created for example in the pre-
vious year) is still relevant in the current environment (as for example 
in the case an institution decides to revise an existing scenario which 
would be cheaper than creating a new one ex-novo), and whether there 
is a likelihood that events might still occur. In the second case, the cur-
rent validity of the existing quantification results can be determined 
by performing comparisons with statistical distributions of losses. 
However, because they are by definition “backward-looking”, they are 
unable to anticipate the current or future environment accurately. This 
may be partially overcome by using risk drivers: an approach often sug-
gested is to analyse the factors that influence or drive the frequency of 
operational risk events and their severity (Laycock 2014).

--- Página 165 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        157
Scenario analysis also requires expert forward-looking estimates of 
frequency and severity of plausible operational risk events. To this end, 
widely used is the quantile approach which allows estimates for specific 
percentiles of the frequency and severity distributions. The quantile 
approach typically implies experts be elicited to provide mean frequency 
(MF), most likely severity (MS) and worst-case severity (WS) estimates. 
The worst-case severity estimate is set at the 99th percentile (or higher) 
of the severity distribution obtained from internal or external data: the 
worst case is statistically defined as one of the extreme percentiles. The 
most likely severity estimate is set at the 50th percentile of the severity 
distribution (Babbel and Dutta 2012).
Questions that might be addressed to the experts are for example 
(Chaudhary 2014):
•	 What is the expected average number of loss events in a year (MF)?
•	 What is the most likely impact of this scenario (MS)?
•	 What would you judge to be the impact of the single largest event 
over the next ‘t’ years (WS)?
•	 What would you judge to be the impact of the single largest loss out 
of ‘x’ such loss events (WS)?
The former way of eliciting WS is called “time-based elicitation”, the 
latter “count-based elicitation”. The time-based elicitation of tail quan-
tile interlinks severity and frequency distributions, while the count-
based method allows elicitation of a predetermined quantile of the 
individual loss severity distribution (Chaudhary 2014).
For assessing severity banks can ask the experts either to select values 
that correspond to specified percentiles of the underlying probability 
distribution, or to assess the probabilities that the true value will exceed 
some specified values (Kahnemann and Tversky 1974). In fact banks 
can use one method as main method and the other as check.
Besides, banks can ask participants to make their assessment as a point 
estimate or to select a quantity within the ranges where they believe 
the severity is likely to belong. Point estimates can generate counterfeit 
accuracy and the expert may become uncomfortable in trying to assess 
a highly uncertain value with great accuracy. The assessment in buckets

--- Página 166 ---
158        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
or ranges can be easier and more useful, as long as attention is drawn in 
constructing the ranges. Actually, if the ranges are too small, the expert 
may be convinced that his/her estimate falls within adjacent ranges. 
Conversely, if the ranges are too wide, the expert may not believe that 
the quantity would ever span the entire range selected (Watchorn 2007).
OeNB and FMA (2006) speak about a “scenario funnel” to indicate 
the spread of scenarios and the spectrum of conceivable future situa-
tions widening under the influence of incidents and interventions over 
time (see Fig. 6.1).
The main steps of the scenario-based approach
The scenario-based AMA Working Group (sbAMA Working Group 
2003) has identified six main steps of the scenario-based approach:
1.	Scenario Generation
2.	Scenario Assessment
3.	Data Quality
4.	Determination of Parameter Values
5.	Model and Parameters
6.	Model Output
Incident 
t0
t1
Time 
Intervention 
best case 
Scenario x 
Normal 
development 
Scenario y 
Scenario z 
worst case 
Fig. 6.1  The scenario funnel (OeNB and FMA 2006)

--- Página 167 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        159
The first step is the scenario generation. The aim is to determine appro-
priate scenarios for OR and to ensure that they are consistent, relevant 
and capture all material ORs. During this step it is first necessary for 
the experts to identify all risk factors reflecting the OR profile. These 
risk factors can be categorized into scenario classes, which are then 
applied to different organizational parts, ensuring consistency across the 
whole organization. Finally, the scenario classes are the basis to identify 
the single scenarios that are relevant for the organizational part that is 
assessing its OR. In particular, to ensure that scenarios are consistent, 
relevant and fully capture all material operational risks, they must fulfil 
the following requirements:
•	 Consistent
	–	 Every organizational part considers as a minimum each of the 
common set of scenario classes, thereby achieving consistency of 
the overall framework
–	 Techniques, such as workshops and questionnaires, allow achiev-
ing consistency of scenarios across organizational parts
–	 Review by Internal Audit and Risk Function recognizes further 
consistency between the organizational parts
•	 Relevance:
–	 Each organizational part assesses the relevance of all scenarios to 
its business and confirms its relevance (for example, if an organiza-
tional unit is not subject to IT failure, there is no need to evaluate 
a risk due to IT break-down).
•	 Full capture of all material ORs:
	–	 The techniques to determine the scenario classes maximize cover-
age of both known and expected risks.
–	 Coverage is further strengthened when applied to the organiza-
tional parts and discussed with them in order to confirm that their 
specific risks are fully covered.

--- Página 168 ---
160        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
The second step is the scenario assessment. For each scenario gener-
ated the banks estimate the potential frequency and loss severity. The 
assessment process is based on the expertise of subjects that have high 
competencies on OR and on information relevant to the scenario, such 
as historical losses, key risk indicators, industry experience and insur-
ance coverage. It is obvious that the importance of the different types 
of information depends especially on the quality of the historical data 
available and its relevance to the current scenario assessment. Therefore, 
if the historical data are of poor quality or if the business is undergoing 
significant changes, such data cannot be used as basis for the estimate.
The third step concerns the validity of the data resulting from sce-
nario assessment. This data, which will be used for risk capital mod-
elling, must be of good quality and reflect the actual OR profile. 
Therefore, all under/overestimates of frequency/severity must be 
adjusted. There are multiple techniques used for this purpose: as men-
tioned above, the “two pairs of eyes principle”, internal audit of the 
risk assessment process, comparison between actual losses and experts’ 
expectations, comparison of the outcome of scenario assessments 
against internal audit findings, and challenge by group functions such 
as risk.
Once the quality of the scenario assessment data has been confirmed, 
these data can be used to obtain parameter values to be employed in 
the model for distributions or analytical solutions. This represents the 
fourth step of the approach, in which at least mean and standard devia-
tion both for frequency and for severity are usually determined.
In the fifth step the determined parameters are fed into the risk 
model. The usual models employ a Monte Carlo simulation to com-
pound all individual distributions per scenario class and organizational 
part into an overall aggregated potential loss distribution. Analytical 
models may be used alternatively.
Finally, the sixth step consists in drawing from the overall loss distri-
bution values the output of the risk capital model: the economic capital 
or the regulatory capital. This makes it necessary to define the quantile 
in which we are interested, which is the absolute value corresponding to 
a given percentile.

--- Página 169 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        161
In BCBS (2011), some critical considerations emerge on the use of 
SBA. In particular, the observation of the SBA models used in bank-
ing operations highlights the critical issues connected to the process of 
quantification/estimation. BCBS (2011) lists the following drawbacks:
•	 many SBA models do not apply statistical inference to raw scenario 
data. Very often the SBA model curves are predetermined and the 
scenario data are used only to estimate the parameters of those distri-
butions (usually by percentile matching);
•	 banks generally use the same curve (usually the lognormal) to model 
the severity of the scenario data across all ORCs,4 regardless of its 
business, size and complexity. The selection of a single curve across 
ORCs implies that the only admissible driver of variation in the 
operational risk exposure lies in the scenario-driven parameter esti-
mates of the chosen distribution;
•	 a bank should ensure that the loss distribution(s) chosen to model 
scenario analysis estimates adequately represent the risk profile of the 
ORCs. In doing so, banks should also consider the potential differ-
ences with an LDA in terms of level of granularity5 and dependence 
across the ORCs.
6.4	
Conclusions
As we have seen in the previous pages, the LDA models lead to a robust 
and valid estimate of OR exposure, although they present a number of 
problematic issues that could be solved more suitably by resorting to 
the SBA methods. On the other hand, these latter methods offer greater 
flexibility, despite featuring some difficulties in justifying and ensuring 
accuracy of the results. Below we compare the two models, with the aim 
of evidencing their main principal potentials and limits (Bazzarello and 
Piacenza 2009).
As previously stated, the objectivity and exhaustiveness of the loss 
data certainly represent a point of strength of the LDA models, since 
the data can be easily reconciled with accounting information that can 
also be checked over time by the auditors and by the supervisory bodies.

--- Página 170 ---
162        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
This means that the input of the calculation model is neither informa-
tion generated by the Operational Risk Management function nor a 
subjective estimate, as it can be found directly in the books of account. 
The SBA models generally refer to subjective judgements or estimated 
impacts, thus requiring greater efforts to check and justify the input 
data and therefore greater difficulties of validation.
The loss data of a bank can be integrated with external data. This 
combination may constitute the input for an LDA calculation model, 
thus improving the accuracy and sturdiness of the results with respect to 
the use only of the internal data.
Variations of the structure of the loss data over time are guided by the 
books of account, allowing the operational risk manager to take a clear 
and independent position of control in addition to showing manage-
ment directly the impact of the dataset changes on the results of risk 
capital, allowing a clear identification of the intervention plans. The 
adjustments and the analyses of the historical series of loss data can be 
traced and directly connected to the processes and to the business. Loss 
data feeding can be partly semi-automated, by using procedures already 
available in the bank.
For all these reasons, the LDAs could represent an appropriate and 
favourable solution, with particular regard to the activities of review of 
the audit and of the supervisory authorities, of internal and external 
benchmarking, as well as justification of the results.
Moreover, the LDAs prove to be particularly rigid when it is neces-
sary to obtain measures of risk referred to individual companies, prod-
ucts or processes in the case in which the availability of internal and 
external data related to these entities is very limited. In fact, risk capital 
calculated on a stand-alone basis using the LDAs is robust and accurate 
only when the numerous samples of the time series are statistically suf-
ficient. Generally, the SBAs should prove to be better than the LDAs at 
providing consistent results for individual companies or business units. 
The SBAs offer the advantage of being flexible: they can be applied at 
different levels (at the organizational, divisional, location, new product, 
or even transactional) (Laycock 2014).
The SBAs are forward-looking and for this reason well suited to 
a dynamic business and organizational environment and support a

--- Página 171 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        163
proactive risk management culture. In other words, “what-if” ques-
tions asked in a scenario analysis shift the focus of risk assessment to 
the future: scenarios outline pictures of the future or plausible explana-
tions on possible “futures” (OeNB and FMA 2006). It follows that the 
SBAs immediately incorporate the changes occurred in the organiza-
tional environment. Accordingly also other key factors are more rapidly 
incorported in the estimates, such as organizational variations, strategy 
changes, different business activities, changes in the external context, 
improvement of controls, etc. On the other hand, LDA models mainly 
use past information, such as internal and external losses. In other 
words, they are backward-looking and the factors mentioned above are 
considered only when the relative historical series fall within the input 
of the model.
Using the SBAs makes it possible to consider the specific nature of 
the business, since the scenarios can be applied to any particular activ-
ity of the financial institution. Therefore, they allow greater granularity, 
since the models based on loss data require a significant amount of data 
in order to obtain sufficiently accurate estimates.
The models based on the scenarios can support, better than the 
LDAs, the dissemination and progress of the culture on operational 
risks. Indeed, the correct implementation of an SBA requires the con-
stant support of experts who should be connected to all the key points of 
the organizational structure. In order to provide regular risk assessments, 
experts need in any case gather as much information as possible, keep-
ing it constantly up to date. In addition, the evaluation and analysis of 
the risk factors and controls associated with the scenarios provide impor-
tant information on how to improve OR management. It is obvious that 
once these improvements have been achieved and the OR profile of the 
organizational parts has decreased, the scenarios can be newly assessed.
The LDA models may sometimes present problems in terms of trans-
parency of the results from the point of view of the business units. In 
fact, if sufficient training activity is not performed to explain the way in 
which the approach works and what are the major levers influencing the 
results, the LDA model could be seen as a true black box. This should 
not happen for the SBAs, since the risk measures for a certain business 
unit are referred directly to the estimates provided by such unit.

--- Página 172 ---
164        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Owing to the many above-mentioned pros and cons of LDA and 
SBA approach, it is not possible to indicate which of the two is best in 
absolute terms. Accordingly, the best suggestion might be to adopt an 
approach that considers both loss data and the experts’ assessments. It 
must, however, be reminded that the LDA type models have been used 
for decades in insurance practice with satisfactory results and, conse-
quently, they may constitute a valid starting point for the implementa-
tion of a model meeting the AMA requirements.
Notes
1.	 The IMA requires classification of banking activities in specific BLs, each 
corresponding to a range of risk events. For each match business unit-
risk factors is given an exposure indicator, which indicates the amount 
of events (Exposure Indicator—EI); internal loss data are then used to 
calculate the probability of the loss event, which indicates the frequency 
of the event (Probability of Loss Event—PE), as well as the loss deriving 
from the occurrence of the event, which equals its severity (Loss Given 
Event—LGE). The product of such entities expresses the expected loss 
that—for the determination of the partial capital requirement—must 
be multiplied by the factor γ that depends on the type of OR; the sum 
of the results for all the matches BL-risk factors determines the total 
amount of the OR regulatory capital. Obviously the IMA is based on 
the dependency between the unexpected and the expected loss by means 
of multiplying factor γ.
2.	 The SA is built on the preventive definition of total regulatory capital for 
OR, on the spreading of the OR own funds among the several BLs, and 
on the adjustment of the individual attributions according to the infor-
mation provided by the indicators that inform both on the true opera-
tional risk exposure and on the quality and effectiveness of the control 
over each BL.
3.	 In order to minimize these biases, an institution must apply a number 
of bias mitigation techniques. Among these, the use of external data 
can help overcome the availability bias in identifying relevant scenarios. 
Besides, the provision of external frequency and impact statistics can act 
as an anchor for the participants’ estimates.

--- Página 173 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        165
4.	 ORC is the acronym of Operational Risk Category. ORC is defined by 
BCBS (2011) as “the level (for example, organizational unit, operational 
loss event type, risk category, etc.) at which the bank’s quantification 
model generates a separate distribution for estimating potential opera-
tional losses. This term identifies a category of operational risk that is 
homogeneous in terms of the risks covered and the data available to ana-
lyze those risks.”
5.	 Granularity is connected with the number of ORCs used within the 
model. BCBS (2011) points out that “There is currently a great variation 
both in the choice and the number of ORCs used by banks”.
References
Aas, K. 2004. Modeling the dependence structure of financial assets: A survey 
of four copulas. Note, Norwegian Computing Centre, December.
Abdymomunov, A., and F. Curti. 2016. Improving the robustness of opera-
tional risk estimation and stress testing through external data scaling, April. 
http://ssrn.com/abstract=2622175.
AG (Advanced Measurement Approaches Group). 2012. Scenario analysis: Part 2: 
Practices. Industry Position Paper.
Aue, F., and M. Kalkbrener. 2007. LDA at work: Deutsche Bank’s approach to 
quantifying operational risk. Journal of Operational Risk 1 (4).
Babbel, D.F., and K. Dutta. 2012. Scenario analysis in the measurement of 
operational risk capital: A change of measure approach. http://www.crai.
com/publication/scenario-analysis-measurement-operational-risk-capital-
change-measure-approach.
Bazzarello, D., and F. Piacenza. 2009. Il loss distribution approach e lo 
­scenario based approach nell’esperienza UniCredit. In Il Rischio operativo 
nelle banche italiane, ed. G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti. Modelli, gestione 
e disclosure, Bancaria Editrice, Roma.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2009. Observed range of 
practice in key elements of Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA), July.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2011. Operational risk—
supervisory guidelines for the Advanced Measurement Approaches, June.
BIS (Bank for International Settlements)-Committee on the Global Financial 
System. 2005. Stress testing at major financial institutions: Survey results 
and practice, Basel.

--- Página 174 ---
166        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Burt, G., G. Wright, R. Bradfield, G. Cairns, and Heijden K. Vander. 2006. 
The role of scenario planning in exploring the environment in view of the 
limitations of PEST and its derivatives. International Studies of Management 
and Organization 36: 50–76.
Chaudhary, D. 2014. Sensitivity analysis of scenario models for operational 
risk Advanced Measurement Approach. http://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.
de/60996/. MPRA Paper No. 60996.
Chapelle, A., Y. Crama, G. Hubner, and J.P. Peters. 2004. Basel II and 
Operational Risk: Implications for risk measurement and management in 
the financial sector, National Bank of Belgium, Working Paper.
Chernobai, A.S., R. Svetlozar, and F.J. Fabozzi. 2005. Composite goodness-of-
fit test for left truncated loss samples, Working Paper.
Chernobai, A.S., S.T. Rachev, and F.J. Fabozzi. 2007. Operational risk: A 
guide to Basel II capital requirements, models and analysis. Willey.
Clemen, R., and C. Fox. 2005. Subjective probability assessment in deci-
sion analysis: Partition dependence and bias toward the ignorance prior. 
Management Science 51 (9): 1417–1432.
Demarta, S., and A.J. McNeil. 2005. The t copula and related copulas. 
International Statistic Review 73 (1).
Dutta, K., and J. Perry. 2013. A Tale of Tails: An empirical analysis of loss dis-
tribution models for estimating operational risk capital. Working Paper, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, No. 6.
Embrechts, P. 2000. Extremes and integrated risk management. Risk Books.
Gregoriou, G.N. 2009. Operational risk toward Basel III. Wiley Finance.
Guray Uner, S. 2008. Loss distribution approach for the operational risk eco-
nomic capital. SAS Global Forum, Paper 163.
Hosking, J.R.M., and J.R. Wallis. 1987. Parameter and quantile estimation for 
the generalized Pareto distribution. Technometrics 29 (3).
Jenkinson, D. 2005. The Elicitation of probabilities—a review of the statistical 
literature’, Bayesian Elicitation of Experts’ Probabilities (BEEP). Working 
Paper, University of Sheffield, U.K.
Kahneman, D., and A. Tversky. 1974. Judgement under Uncertainty: 
Heuristics and biases. Science 185: 1124–1131. September.
Laycock, M. 2014. Operational risk quantification: Scenarios. Thomson 
Reuters Accelus, September.
Lemmi Gigli, N. 2005. Trasferimento del Rischio Operativo. V Convention 
Aifirm, Convegno Nazionale Risk Management, Ottobre 20–21.
Lubbe, J., and F. Snyman. 2010. The advanced measurement approach for 
banks. IFC Bulletin, (33), 141–149.

--- Página 175 ---
6  Operational Risk Modelling: Focus on the Loss Distribution …        167
McNeil, A.J., R. Frey, and P. Embrechts. 2005. Quantitative risk management. 
Princeton series in Finance.
Mignola, G., and R. Ugoccioni. 2005. Tests of extreme value theory. 
Operational Risk 6 (10).
Moscadelli, M. 2004. The modelling of operational risk experience with the 
analysis of the data collected by the Basel Committee. Banca d’Italia, Temi 
di discussione, n. 517.
Oakley, J., and A. O’Hagan. 2004. Probability is perfect, but we can’t elicit it 
perfectly. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 85: 239–248.
OeNB (Oesterreichische Nationalbank), FMA (Austrian Financial Market 
Authority). 2006. Guidelines on Operational Risk Management.
Rippel, M., and P. Teply. 2008. Operational Risk—Scenario Analysis, Institute 
of Economic Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences. Charles University in 
Prague, IES Working Paper, No 15.
Romano, C. 2002. Calibrating and simulating copula functions: An applica-
tion to the Italian stock market. Working Paper, 12, Cidem.
Romano, C., and A. Di Clemente. 2003. A copula extreme value theory 
approach for modeling operational risk. Working Paper.
Savelli, N. 2005. L’approccio attuariale nella valutazione del rischio operativo: 
il Loss Distribution Approach e l’Extreme Value Theory. Corso di aggior-
namento ASSBB—Universita Cattolica su Il rischio operativo nelle banche: 
metodologie di valutazione e strumenti di copertura assicurativa, Milano, 
7–8 Giugno.
sbAMA (The scenario-based AMA) (sbAMA) working group (2003) 
“Scenario-based AMA”, May.
Segal, S. 2011. Corporate value of enterprise risk management. Wiley.
Shih, J., A. Samad-Khan, and P. Medapa. 2000. Is the size of an operational 
loss related to firm size? Operational Risk January.
Sklar, A. 1959. Fonctions de repartition a n dimensions et leurs marges. 
Institute de Statistique de l’Universite de Paris.
Spetzler, C., and C.S. Von Holstein. 1975. Probability encoding in decision 
analysis. Management Science 22 (3): 340–357, November.
Torresetti, R., and C. Nordio. 2014. Scaling operational loss data and its sys-
temic risk implications, February. http://ssrn.com/abstract=2360483.
Watchorn, E. 2007. Applying a structured approach to operational risk sce-
nario analysis in Australia. Information Paper, Australian Prudential 
Regulation Authority, September.

--- Página 176 ---
7.1	
Introduction
In the case of the small banks, operational risk management generally 
takes on a secondary role compared to other risks, more closely asso-
ciated with typical banking activity (in primis credit risk). This can be 
mainly due to the low degree of diversification of the activities carried 
out by smaller banks, which decreases the operational risk exposure and 
consequently the need to employ human, financial and technological 
resources in sophisticated systems of operational risk management.
In this chapter we present the results of a survey on a sample of 
Italian cooperative banks. The survey explores different research areas: 
organizational aspects, measurement methods, Second Pillar, insurance 
coverage, and trade associations/outsourcing.
7.2	
OR Management in Smaller Banks
In the setting of smaller banks with a more traditional business, OR 
management takes on a secondary role compared to the management of 
other risks that are more closely associated with typical banking activity, 
7
Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian 
Cooperative Banks
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks,  
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_7
169

--- Página 177 ---
170        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
such as—first and foremost—credit risk. This can be mainly due to 
the low degree of diversification of the activities carried out by smaller 
banks, which decreases the OR exposure and consequently the need to 
employ human, financial and technological resources in sophisticated 
systems of operational risk management.
Such considerations also explain the choice towards less evolved 
methods in the calculation of OR capital requirement, as evidenced by 
the results of the QIS-5 (Quantitative Impact Study 5), which show a 
widespread adoption, at international level, of the basic and standard-
ized approaches among banks featuring less complex organization 
(Table 7.1).1
In general, the trend towards adopting more simplified approaches is 
justified by the operational and market characteristics featured by smaller 
banks, which inevitably restrain OR management and measurement 
from being developed to their full potential. There are, however, few 
smaller banks willing to undertake a more efficient OR management in 
view of benefits in terms of control and cutting down on operational risk.
7.3	
Overall Results of the Survey
A recent survey of ours on a sample of cooperative banks (in Italian, 
banche di credito cooperativo—BCCs)2 has investigated the state of 
the art of OR management on behalf of smaller banks (Birindelli and 
Ferretti 2009). In order to capture the attitudes smaller banks have 
Table 7.1  Types of OR approaches by level of diffusion among banks. Source 
BCBS (2006)
Note The figures in this table include banks of G-10 countries with the excep-
tion of US. G-10 countries are: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, 
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom 
and the United States
Approach
Group 1 Banks
Group 2 Banks
Basic indicator approach
2
81
Standardized approach
32
65
Advanced measurement approach
22
0
Total
56
146

--- Página 178 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        171
towards OR and the many observation points (organization structure, 
measurement methods, market disclosure, and so on), we purposely 
selected a sample of BCCs that could help us understand the main 
issues linked to small company size. Our sample selection focused on 
those BCCs having headquarters in Tuscany (Italy) and featuring a set 
of characteristics representative of the cooperative banking system.
The BCCs were first asked to provide some information on their 
company profile, and were then invited to complete a 5-section ques-
tionnaire (see Appendix) enquiring on (i) organizational aspects, (ii) 
measurement methods, (iii) Second Pillar, (iv) insurance coverage, (v) 
and trade associations/outsourcing. Participation was low, reaching 
approximately 50%. In most cases banks declined our invitation claim-
ing that their extremely small size and their exclusive use of the basic 
approach would not have contributed to our study.
The sample, which was initially composed of 19 respondents, was later 
expanded by adding four banks associated with the Federation of Lazio 
Umbria Sardegna (Federlus). Below, data on the size of participating banks 
are summarized in terms of total assets and regulatory capital (Table 7.2), 
whereas the complete list of banks is provided at the end of the chapter.
Interestingly, the persons (within the participating institutions) most 
often assigned to complete the questionnaire were risk controllers, who 
were in many cases already assigned to other responsibilities such as in 
the control area, planning and control, and compliance.
In the following sections we report the results on the information 
obtained in response to the questionnaire, distinguishing between banks 
with headquarters in Tuscany from those associated with Federlus.
Table 7.2  Size of BCCs participating to the survey—values in thousands of euros 
(own processing)
Min
Max
Mean
Median
BCCs in Tuscany
Total assets
27,281
3,801,622
600,696
379,475
Regulatory capital
4,168
209,205
47,828
37,358
Federlus BCCs
Total assets
43,000
477,010
209,706
159,407
Regulatory capital
3,800
33,448
15,942
13,260

--- Página 179 ---
172        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
7.3.1	 Organizational Aspects
BCCs in Tuscany
42.1% of BCCs in Tuscany had a specific function dedicated to OR 
management, whereas the others either did not have a specific organi-
zational control unit (26.3%) or the OR was directly managed by the 
officer in charge of the organizational unit where the risk had its source 
(31.6%). As expected, none of the banks had an OR committee. In 
many cases the OR function corresponded to the risk controller, who 
(as mentioned above) at the same time covered other roles (e.g., inter-
nal compliance manager, officer in charge of managing other types of 
risks). According to the open comments and notes the respondents gave 
in the questionnaire, it appears that this function also performed second 
level controls, while a third level for OR controls was assigned to an 
Inspection Unit/Control Area.
Where available, the function was organizationally placed as a staff 
function reporting to the general manager (6 banks), under the board of 
directors (1 bank) and within the planning and control (again, 1 bank).
The tasks/responsibilities assigned to the personnel involved in the 
performance of the function’s activities (whose number never exceeds 1) 
were always formalized. The instruments adopted in this regard were 
mostly regulations approved by the board of directors and related 
implementation regulations; participants also mentioned specific job 
descriptions, service orders, checks plans, Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP)  regulations and internal communications.
The function’s degree of responsibility, which was evaluated on a range 
from 1 to 5, was distributed quite uniformly among the activities listed in 
the questionnaire and reported in Table 7.3, with a maximum mean score 
(3.4) reached for advice to the board of directors and the top manage-
ment, and lowest mean score (3.0) for the assessment of OR exposure in 
the case of entering new markets and/or offer of new products, as well as 
for the definition of tolerance thresholds for the business units.
The same range was used to enquire on the degree of involvement 
in OR management on behalf of specific functions: OR function/
unit, Risk Management (RM), Internal Audit (IA), legal, compliance,

--- Página 180 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        173
the individual business units, units delegated to the management of 
information-accounting systems, planning and control, and organiza-
tion. The degree of involvement, calculated as the average of the values 
reported in the questionnaires, generally had values greater than 3, with 
a minimum value for the planning and control and a maximum for the 
RM (see Table 7.4).
Table 7.3  Responsibility score attributed to the OR function—BCCs in Tuscany 
(own processing)
Note Each score corresponds to a degree of responsibility: 1 = not accountable; 
2 = slightly accountable; 3 = quite accountable; 4 = mostly accountable; 5 = com-
pletely accountable
Task
Mean
Defining OR management policies
3.2
Developing OR measurement methods
3.2
Checking the implementation of such methods and reviewing them 
periodically
3.2
Disseminating OR culture by promoting awareness raising
3.2
Contributing to the assessment of OR exposure in the event of entering 
new segments of the market and/or offering of new products
3.0
Advising the board of directors and the top management in defining 
the limits of controls and the delegation of powers
3.4
Monitoring the loss data collection
3.1
Establishing OR tolerance thresholds for the business units
3.0
Table 7.4  Engagement in OR management—BCCs in Tuscany (own processing)
Note The mean score for the OR function/unit is obtained by considering only 
those banks having a function/unit ad hoc; the other scores instead consider all 
19 banks in Tuscany. The scores range from 1 to 5: 1 = function not engaged; 
2 = function with little engagement; 3 = function sufficiently engaged; 
4 = function very engaged; 5 = function totally engaged
Function/Unit
Mean
OR function/unit
3.6
Risk management
3.7
Internal audit
3.3
Legal
2.6
Compliance
3.4
Individual business units
3.0
Units assigned to management of information-accounting systems
2.7
Planning and control
2.3
Organization
3.1

--- Página 181 ---
174        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
As described by participating banks, the main tasks/skills in OR 
management are identified in the following:
•	 RM: mapping/identification of the OR; risk measurement and sta-
tistical analysis related to the quantification of OR; continuous 
monitoring; drafting work processes for limiting underlying OR; 
preparation of reports on the OR; advising on definition of control 
limits and on the delegation of powers; evaluation of the OR in the 
case of offer of new products; determination of the maximum risk 
exposure; assessment of the adequacy and proper functioning of the 
endogenous risk factors (processes, information-accounting systems, 
human resources); definition of the strategies for OR mitigation;
•	 IA (outsourced in 17 cases): assessing process adequacy, effective-
ness of controls and of OR mitigation strategies; supporting RM for 
the census of the risks; reviewing the work of the RM; reporting to 
top management on any undetected OR and the malfunctioning of 
control units and/or their monitoring. In many cases banks reported 
also the monitoring on the legitimacy of changes to the authoriza-
tion procedures for accessing the information system with the aim of 
improving segregation among functional units, and the monitoring 
on employee operations by introducing appropriate IT system locks;
•	 Legal function: supporting RM for the identification and assessment of 
legal risks; detecting and managing complaints received from custom-
ers; identifying damages to reputation resulting from the occurrence of 
OR; monitoring of indicators such as the number and amount of losses 
due to internal and external frauds, disputes, insurance compensations 
due to external causes, revocatory actions, and robberies;
•	 Compliance (also this function is outsourced in 17 banks): monitor-
ing of compliance of contracts and internal regulations; advising RM 
for the identification and assessment of risks; ex-ante controlling on 
processes; contributing to the diffusion of OR culture at business unit 
level; defining work processes in collaboration with the organization;
•	 Planning and control: estimating losses on various market segments 
and products specified in the strategic and operational plan; measur-
ing the OR within the ICAAP; transferring RM dispositions into the 
annual and strategic plans;

--- Página 182 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        175
•	 Organization: drafting of work processes and their modification to 
mitigate the OR; verification of the correct distribution of processes 
among the personnel; support to the RM for verification of opera-
tional and IT procedures and of related controls to protect employee 
safety; preparation of internal regulations for OR management.
The descriptions listed above evidence that some tasks were assigned to 
different functions; nevertheless, the division of roles appears mostly 
uniform across the different banks.
The last questions on organization address reporting; in particu-
lar, they are related to the person assigned to drafting reports on OR, 
to the frequency of the reports and to their recipients. Aside from two 
banks that had still not done that, in the remaining banks this task was 
generally assigned to the risk controlling unit, that prepared the reports 
sometimes in concert with other functions (namely, IA and general 
manager). Only in two cases the preparation of the reports was done by 
different parties: the internal audit in one bank, and the staff from plan-
ning and control function in the other bank. The frequency of reports 
was once every three/four months in most cases, and every six or twelve 
months in a few banks. Among the recipients of the reports, all survey 
respondents mentioned the board of directors, supported in some cases 
by general managers, the managers responsible for business units, the 
audit committee and the board of auditors.
Federlus BCCs
Among the four Federlus BCCs, three banks did not have a dedicated 
OR function/unit, while the remaining bank had a risk control service 
that was assigned to other risks, in addition to OR. Also these banks 
had considered the risk controller—or analogous figure—as an organi-
zational control unit that was not specifically assigned to OR manage-
ment, probably due to the concomitant assignment of responsibilities in 
monitoring several risks.
The risk control service, which operates as a staff unit reporting to the 
general manager and has two units of personnel, was formally assigned

--- Página 183 ---
176        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
to specific tasks as expressed in the internal regulations and was totally 
accountable for all the tasks listed in Table 7.3.
The degree of involvement of different functions assigned to OR 
management (Table 7.5) was visibly lower compared to that of BCCs in 
Tuscany (Table 7.4).
In that bank with an ad hoc function, RM performed all the activi-
ties listed in Table 7.3, alongside monitoring the other risks as well; the 
remaining banks reported among their main tasks: checking for any 
operational irregularities that could generate OR, drafting of reports 
on mitigation, capital requirements, effectiveness of insurance contracts 
and on the adequacy of processes and procedures. As in reference to the 
IA (outsourced in all cases), the answers point towards the assessment 
of business processes that could have generated OR and the drafting of 
OR reports. Similar replies were also found in reference to compliance 
(this, too, was outsourced in all four banks), responsible for the analysis 
and assessment of the strategic risk and for the supervision of the con-
formity of the processes. Only one bank reported the involvement of 
the legal function—which exerted the skills in the field of legal risk and 
litigation procedures—while another bank reported the involvement of 
planning and control—which was also responsible for the assessment 
of the legal risk and associated reputational risk. Finally, organization 
managed and supervised the decision tables of the information system, 
established business processes and operated on them, and was responsi-
ble for designing and updating of the business continuity plan.
Table 7.5  Engagement in OR management—Federlus BCCs (own processing)
Note The scores range from 1 to 5: 1 = function not engaged; 2 = function 
with little engagement; 3 = function sufficiently engaged; 4 = function very 
engaged; 5 = function totally engaged
Function/Unit
Mean
OR function/unit
5.0
Risk management
3.5
Internal audit
2.7
Legal
1.2
Compliance
1.7
Individual business units
3.0
Units assigned to management of information-accounting systems
1.7
Planning and control
1.2
Organization
2.0

--- Página 184 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        177
Reporting was active in three banks: in all cases, there was similarity 
in terms of the structure carrying out the reporting (risk control ser-
vice/risk controller), and of frequency in issuing the reports (in all cases, 
every three/four months). The recipients were in two cases the board of 
directors, and in the other case was the general manager.
7.3.2	 Measurement Methods
BCCs in Tuscany
The overall results from the survey evidenced that all Tuscan banks 
adopted the basic indicator approach, and only one of them was mov-
ing (in the short-medium term) towards more advanced approaches for 
regulatory purposes. The adoption of the BIA was most often justified 
by the banks’ small size and the benefits expected from more sophis-
ticated methods, which (according to responses) appeared too exigu-
ous to counterbalance the high investments in human resources and IT 
systems, needed for the implementation of the other methods (stand-
ardized approach and, all the more, advanced measurement approach). 
Banks also believed that the use of less sophisticated approach was con-
sistent with their actual risk profile. Other reasons can be ascribed to 
the need of sharing the adoption of more advanced approaches with the 
associative structures of the cooperative system.
Differently, five banks had adopted for management purposes a more 
sophisticated approach than that used for the calculation of the regula-
tory requirement, with greater attention towards internal loss data, busi-
ness environment and internal control factors, and Key Risk Indicators 
(KRIs). In particular, responses to the question on the frequency of use 
of the elements/tools for the estimation of the risk exposure provided 
the mean values reported in Table 7.6.
Specifically, the KRIs—used in 11 BCCs—were (according to the 
replies to multiple-choice question):
•	 total cash shortages;
•	 number of documents non-compliant with regulations;
•	 inconsistencies identified upon IA inspections;

--- Página 185 ---
178        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
•	 number of manual errors;
•	 other indicators: complaints, litigation procedures and losses in law-
suits, labour compensations, thefts and robberies, insurance compen-
sations, inconsistencies identified by compliance (all of which were 
reported from the same respondent bank).
The internal loss data are reported separately in 13 banks when data 
take on the nature of credit/market risk boundary losses.
The limited resort to external data (in five BCCs) did not involve the 
use of scaling techniques in any case, either for the frequency, or the 
severity, or the integration with internal losses to build a single distribu-
tion of frequency and severity.
In those cases in which scenario analysis was performed (five banks) 
(according to the answers to this multiple-choice question), the analysis 
aimed at collecting information on:
•	 probability and severity;
•	 average value of loss;
•	 worst case scenario;
•	 ORs embedded in processes and products;
•	 quality of internal controls.
In a setting in which a formalized method for scenario construction was 
lacking, those assigned to structuring the questionnaire in order to carry 
Table 7.6  Frequency of use of tools for OR assessment—BCCs in Tuscany (own 
processing)
Note The scores ranging from 1 to 5 indicate: 1 = never used; 2 = used in 
less than 25% of cases; 3 = used in number of cases between 25% and 50%; 
4 = used between 50% and 75% of cases; 5 = used in more than 75% cases
Elements/Analyses
Mean
Risk maps and process charts
2.2
KRIs
2.4
Internal data
2.7
External data
1.2
Scenario analysis
1.6
Business environment and internal control factors
2.5

--- Página 186 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        179
out this analysis were: OR control unit, the risk manager/risk control-
ler, the manager responsible for the business continuity plan, the risk 
controlling and compliance service. The questionnaire addressees were 
mainly managers responsible for business units and, in one case, the 
board of directors.
The assessment of business environment and internal control factors 
was found in 10 banks and mainly involved: IA, OR control unit, the 
manager responsible for business units, organization, inspection unit, 
risk manager/risk controller, general manager, personnel working in 
planning and control.
Despite the elaboration of subjective estimates—although, with a 
negligible weight—none of the banks had implemented a system for 
verifying the reliability of such estimates, such as cross-checks between 
true losses and estimated expected losses, and between evaluations by 
the managers responsible for business units and those by internal audi-
tors.
In all cases the findings evidenced an OR management still at its 
early design stage and capable of being further developed with the help 
of the associative structures of the cooperative system.
Federlus BCCs
Similar results have been found for the Federlus BCCs which reported 
the BIA as the only method being adopted, and none manifested any 
intention to change towards more sophisticated approaches (nor in the 
short or medium term), owing to the same size-related reasons (high costs 
and need of difficult-to-find resources due to the small size of the BCCs).
Also for these BCCs the frequency of use of elements and tools for 
evaluating the risk exposure was low: as can be seen by comparing data 
in Tables 7.6 and 7.7, the mean rates were always lower for the Federlus 
BCCs and the use of risk maps and process charts, as well as internal 
loss data, was actually inexistent.
The KRIs, used by two banks, were represented by irregularities iden-
tified by the IA and cash shortages; internal loss data (when connected 
to credit and market risk), were reported separately in two cases.

--- Página 187 ---
180        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
As to external data, the results were as for the Tuscan BCCs: the only 
bank that had resorted to their use had not adopted scaling techniques 
nor integration with internal losses.
Only one bank conducted the scenario analysis and estimated the 
business environment and internal control factors: as to the former the 
self-assessment was intended exclusively to evaluate the quality of inter-
nal controls; as to the latter, estimation was conducted mainly on the 
basis of the findings of the Federlus audit analysis. Finally, the bank did 
not check the reliability of subjective data.
7.3.3	 Operational Risk in the Second Pillar
BCCs in Tuscany
This section focuses on the calculation model for economic capital, 
which was found in five BCCs in Tuscany and in two banks under plan-
ning. None of the banks that had not adopted a model was working to 
establish one.
The model was defined by RM, which in one case relied on a service 
agency within the BCC network and on external professionals, whereas 
the model was defined by the board of directors only in one bank.
As commented by the participants, the most frequently measured 
risks were credit, market and operational risks. The model included OR 
Table 7.7  Frequency of use of tools for OR assessment—Federlus BCCs (own 
processing)
Note The scores ranging from 1 to 5 indicate: 1 = never used; 2 = used in less 
than 25% of cases; 3 = used in a number of cases between 25% and 50%; 
4 = used between 50% and 75% of cases; 5 = used in more than 75% cases
Elements/Analyses
Mean value
Risk maps and process charts
1.0
KRIs
1.5
Internal data
1.0
External data
1.1
Scenario analysis
1.2
Business environment and internal control factors
1.2

--- Página 188 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        181
in four banks. Its incidence (expressed in percentage and in one case 
as absolute value) was 4.5, 7.4, 15% respectively and 2.147 millions of 
euros.
In few cases the model took into account the benefits from diversifi-
cation, namely diversification among types of risk, though without dis-
tinction among different business units.
The reasons that led to the implementation of an economic capital 
model (Table 7.8) were mainly linked to the compliance with regulatory 
requirements, followed by the willingness to improve strategic planning 
and define risk limits.
Among the respondents, the economic capital measures were mainly 
used to assess/allocate the capital; in one case they were also used for the 
evaluation of the profit margin for each product/service and the profit 
margin at customer level.
The indicators that correlate banking performance to the level of risk 
were used by eight banks and were at the planning stage in two others. 
All 10 BCCs signalled the (ongoing or planned) joint use of the follow-
ing indicators: RAROC (Risk-Adjusted Return on Capital), RORAC 
(Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital), and RARORAC (Risk-Adjusted 
Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital). EVA (Economic Value Added) was 
reported by eight banks and EaR (Earning at Risk) by four.
The main objectives for the use of such indicators claimed by the 
banks were an efficient capital allocation (nine banks) and the assess-
ment of the results achieved compared to those planned (six banks); 
Table 7.8  Reasons relevant for calculation of economic capital—mean values 
for BCCs in Tuscany (own processing)
Note The scale ranges from 1 to 5: 1 = non relevant; 2 = little relevant; 
3 = quite relevant; 4 = very relevant; 5 = extremely relevant
Reasons
Relevance
Regulatory requirements
4.6
Improvement of strategic planning
3.4
Definition of risk appetite
2.2
Improvement of rating
1.4
Improvement of pricing
2.4
Definition of risk limits/capital allocation
3.4
Assessment of risk-adjusted performance
2.0

--- Página 189 ---
182        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
following in order, was the comparison of performance between the 
different business units (two banks), while the last option listed in the 
multiple-choice answer (the establishment of a system of incentives 
linked to risk) had not been reported by any of the banks.
Federlus BCCs
Only one of the Federlus BCCs had in place a model for calculating 
economical capital. The model encompassed OR—the incidence of 
which summed up to two hundred thousand euros—but did not take 
into account the benefits deriving from diversification.
As to risk indicators, none of the Federlus BCCs used any. However, 
after the survey some Federlus banks verified the capital sustainability of 
their own strategic plans, quantifying the RORAC for each projection 
period.
7.3.4	 Insurance Coverage
BCCs in Tuscany
This section of the survey opens enquiring on whether the bank had 
implemented a comparison between insurance contracts and events 
causing an OR loss: six BCCs in Tuscany had already acted in this 
direction and half of these had been pushed to review the insurance 
contracts in terms of their change and/or their renegotiation.
The management of insurance policies was assigned to several organi-
zational areas and in some banks even to more units/managers, among 
which: the general manager (5 cases), the OR function (4 cases), pur-
chasing and logistics (2), legal (2), organization (2), administration (2), 
human resources (1).
The traditional forms of insurance coverage were never accompanied 
by innovating forms of insurance.

--- Página 190 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        183
Federlus BCCs
The comparison between insurance contracts and events causing an 
OR loss found scarce diffusion also among the Federlus BCCs: only 
one bank had performed the comparison and had revised the insurance 
contracts accordingly. The organization units that were involved in the 
management of insurance contracts were represented by risk manage-
ment, organization and management control.
As for the BCCs in Tuscany, none of the Federlus banks had resorted 
to more innovating forms of insurance.
7.3.5	 Trade Associations and Outsourcing
BCCs in Tuscany
The opening part of the section addresses the tasks performed by trade 
associations and networks of BCCs supporting OR management for 
individual banks.
Despite all—except two3—of the BCCs in Tuscany belonging to the 
Tuscan Federation, the participating intermediaries provided dis-homo-
geneous replies: while six banks did not mention any support on behalf 
of the Federation, the remaining 11 listed a number of tasks performed 
by the Federation towards a better OR management; although it was 
emphasized that such tasks referred to evolving projects thus would 
have yielded returns in the coming years.
In general, the responses pointed to a number of actions gathered 
within the Federation, spanning from support in the loss data collec-
tion (with the intention of creating a regional database), to the defini-
tion of KRIs, to the future implementation of more advanced methods 
than the BIA, to elaboration of economic capital models, to the spread-
ing of information under the Third Pillar, to the closing of insur-
ance contracts. Conversely, there was less support—either actual or

--- Página 191 ---
184        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
expected—from the network: only one bank benefiting from tasks per-
formed by Cabel.4 Among the services received by the respondent bank 
were the production of management software and the management and 
strategic advice.
The section closes with an enquiry on any outsourcing of phases 
in OR management. Eighteen banks had relied on outsourcing, and 
almost all had turned to the local regional Federation.5 The phases 
derived from the outsourcing of IA and compliance and thus concerned 
the support tasks described in Sect. 7.3.1 on organization.
Federlus BCCs
Some divergences in the appreciation of the support provided by the 
trade associations were also found among the Federlus BCCs: only two 
banks acknowledged support in OR management—especially in a long-
term view—both in terms of implementation of KRIs and the prepara-
tion of the information under the Pillar III.
Findings evidenced a lack of support from the network of BCCs, 
while there were cases of outsourcing some phases of the OR manage-
ment process. As for the Tuscan institutions, these were mainly audit 
and compliance tasks outsourced to the Federation.
7.4	
Conclusions
The present survey provides some interesting insights: on the one 
hand, it evidences some differences among the BCCs in the differ-
ent OR observation profiles proposed by the sections of the question-
naire; on the other, it evidences common trends and general issues to be 
addressed in the near future.
The analysis of the organizational structure indicates the widespread 
presence of a risk controller who appears to be in charge of monitoring 
operational risks, as well as of responsibilities and tasks in other areas; 
among such tasks, the appointment as internal compliance manager 
was most recurrent. The risk controller is also present in the institutions

--- Página 192 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        185
that claim to lack an OR control unit: differently from the rationale fol-
lowed by the other respondent banks in elaborating the answers, these 
do not recognize this figure as a subject with specific tasks of the OR 
management, likely because of the variety of additional tasks assigned to 
him/her.
A certain homogeneity can be recognized in the type of tasks per-
formed by the functions that collaborate towards OR management, 
although there is much room for increasing involvement and devel-
oping synergies. This observation is justified in the light of the capital 
requirements quantification method followed (BIA), which did not cer-
tainly help the development of a sound organizational structure distin-
guished by a formalization of roles aiming to a joint and integrated OR 
management.
Indeed, all BCCs have adopted the BIA. However, the findings do 
highlight signs indicating a tendency towards a greater awareness in risk 
control and the use of tools of analysis to achieve this. In the future, 
banks will be required to keep more focus on the economic capital cal-
culation models, not only to expand the range of measured risks and to 
refine the calculation of risks and the treatment of the benefits deriv-
ing from diversification, but also to integrate the models with the sys-
tem of strategic and operational planning. It is likely that there will be 
an increased awareness on the benefits deriving from the use of more 
advanced methods (which to date are believed still to be inferior com-
pared to the costs for implementation).
The path ahead is still long: the size of these banks, the availability 
of resources (human, financial and technological) and the level of spe-
cialization that can be achieved by these banks represent elements that 
hinder the achievement of an effective OR management.
The use of the BIA is also at the root of the few cases of revision of 
insurance contracts, for which the deduction in the calculation of capi-
tal requirements is not allowed.
Lastly, the responses evidence that there are expectations around 
support activities provided by local federations and by the centralized 
structures of the cooperative system. In the view of improving OR 
management mechanisms and self-assessment of the ORs in individual 
institutions, banks expect tasks be handled by cooperative associations

--- Página 193 ---
186        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
(assistance on the technical, procedural and organizational requirements 
required by prudential regulations). The support may extend to the loss 
data collection at the level of the entire BCC system, in which case the 
significance of the data would give a strong impetus to the use of differ-
ent models from the BIA, also for management purposes alone.
List of Participating Banks
BCCs in Tuscany
Banca di Anghiari e Stia, Banca Apuana, Banca di Cambiano, Banca 
di Cascia di Reggello, Banca di Castagneto Carducci, Banca della 
Costa d’Argento, Banca di Impruneta, Banca di Montepulciano, 
Banca Monteriggioni, Banca del Mugello, Banca di Pescia, Banca 
di Pontassieve, Banca di Saturnia, Banca di Signa, Banca Versilia 
Lunigiana e Garfagnana, Banca di Vignole, Credito Cooperativo Area 
Pratese, Credito Cooperativo Fiorentino, Credito Cooperativo della 
Valdinievole.
Federlus BCCs
Cassa Rurale ed Artigiana dell’Agro Pontino, BCC della Tuscia, Banca 
di Formello e Trevignano Romano, BCC Privernate.
Notes
1.	 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2006) breaks down 
banks into Group 1 or Group 2, with those in Group 1 fulfilling the 
criteria as stated: “the bank has a Tier 1 capital in excess of €3 billion; 
the bank is diversified; the bank is internationally active”. Both classes 
of financial intermediaries belong to: “European countries which are 
either EU member states, EU accession candidates or members of the 
European Economic Area (EEA). In total this group comprises the

--- Página 194 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        187
Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS), which includes 
30 countries (both G10 and non-G10), 20 of which provided data for 
QIS 5. Since they are all CEBS member or observer countries this group 
is referred to as the CEBS group”.
2.	 For the definition of BCCs, we invite the reader to visit the website of 
the cooperative banking system (http://www.creditocooperativo.it/
template/default.asp?i_menuID=42125): “The Credito Cooperativo is 
a system based on a network comprising 364 cooperative banks called 
Banche di Credito Cooperativo, Casse Rurali, and Casse Raiffeisen 
in Alto Adige; associative structures; and several service companies, all 
of which work together to guarantee a complete and diversified range 
of products, in keeping with the values and identity of a cooperative. 
The most important feature of these cooperative banks (BCCs) is that 
of being local, mutual, not-for-profit cooperatives.” As to the associa-
tive structure, it “is subdivided into three levels: local (BCCs), regional 
(Local Federations) and national (Federcasse). The individual BCCs 
are associated with the Local Federations (representing one or more 
regions) which in turn are members of Federcasse, the Italian Federation 
of BCCs. Federcasse represents and protects the rights of its associate 
banks, offering them legal, fiscal, and organizational assistance, while 
providing support towards communications and training, so as to ben-
efit the entire Credito Cooperativo system.”
3.	 These were banks associated to the Associazione Generale Cooperative 
Italiane.
4.	 A support network for local banks established in 1985 thanks to the 
initiative of three Tuscan rural banks; the network provides services to 
many institutions among which several Italian subsidiaries of foreign 
banks.
5.	 Sixteen BCCs relied on the Federation’s centralized structure both for IA 
and compliance, while only one bank relied on it for the compliance. 
One last bank had outsourced only the IA to another association. The 
outsourcing mainly concerned IT services and services related to the 
management of receipts and payments, and advanced technological sup-
port for a better interaction with the customers.

--- Página 195 ---
188        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Appendix
Survey on Operational Risk Management
1. Bank’s information
Name of the BCC: _______________________________________________________________
Total assets:_______________________________________
Share capital: _____________________________________________
Regulatory capital: ____________________________________
Role/position of the compiler within the bank: _______________________________________
2. Organizational aspects 
2.1 From an organizational point of view, your bank: 
Does not have a dedicated OR function 
Does have a dedicated OR function 
The OR is directly managed by the managers responsible for the unit in which it originated 
There is the OR committee within the board of directors 
Other (specify)__________________________________________________________
2.2 In the case there is a dedicated function, where is it located within the organization chart?
Under the board of directors 
As a staff function reporting to the general manager 
Within the planning and control function 
Within the IA 
As a staff function reporting to the managing director 
Other (specify) ___________________________________________________________
2.3 In the case there is a dedicated function, how many personnel units are involved?
_________________________________________________________________________

--- Página 196 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        189
2.4 In the case there is a dedicated function, has there been a formal assignment of tasks and 
responsibilities? If so, with which instruments (internal regulation and communication, non-official 
regulation, and so on)?
No, the assignment of tasks and responsibilities has not been made formal 
Yes, by means of _______________________________________________________________
2.5  In the case there is a dedicated function, which is its degree of responsibility in carrying out the  
following tasks? (Scores range from1 to 5:  1 = not accountable; 2 = slightly accountable; 3 = quite  
accountable; 4 = mostly accountable; 5 = completely accountable)
1
2
3
4
5
Defining OR management policies 
Developing OR measurement methods 
Checking the implementation of such methods and reviewing them 
periodically
Disseminating OR culture by promoting awareness raising
Contributing to the assessment of OR exposure in the event of entering new 
segments of the market and/or offering of new products 
Advising the board of directors and the top management in defining the 
limits of controls and the delegation of powers
Monitoring the loss data collection
Establishing OR tolerance thresholds for the business units
2.6 Overall, which  units/functions  are engaged  in  OR management  and  to  what degree?  (Scores
range from 1 to 5:  1 = function not engaged; 2 = function with little engagement; 3 = function suff-
iciently engaged; 4 = function very engaged; 5 = function totally engaged)
1
2
3
4
5
Operational Risk function/unit
Risk management
Internal audit
Legal
Compliance
Individual business units
Units assigned to management of information-accounting 
systems 
Planning and Control
Organization
Other (specify)

--- Página 197 ---
190        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Risk management
Internal audit
Legal
Compliance
Planning and Control
Organization
Other (specify)
2.8 Who drafts the OR report? 
OR function 
Managers responsible for business units 
Other (specify)
2.9 How often are the reports prepared? 
Monthly 
Every three/four months 
Every six months 
Yearly 
2.10 Who are the recipients of the report? 
board of directors 
managing director 
Risk management committee 
OR function 
Planning and Control 
2.7 Describe the main tasks/skills in OR management for each function listed:
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 198 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        191
Managers responsible for business units 
Audit committee 
Other (specify)
Comments/details on section 2:
3. OR measurement methods
3.1 Which of the following methods do you use for regulatory purposes? 
basic indicator approach 
standardized approach 
advanced measurement approach 
3.2 In the case BIA is used, do you plan to adopt more sophisticated approaches in the short medium term? 
Yes
No
3.3 If not, why (specify)? 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________ 
3.4 In the case BIA is used, is another more evolved approach used for internal purposes? 
Yes
No
3.5 Which of the following instruments do you use most often to identify and measure OR exposure?  
(1 = never used; 2 = used in less than 25% of cases; 3 = used in number of cases between 25% and 
50%; 4 = used between 50% and 75% of cases; 5 = used in more than 75% cases). 
1
2
3
4
5
Risk maps and process charts
Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) 
Internal data 
External data
Scenario analysis
Business environment and internal control factors
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 199 ---
192        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
3.6 Are the losses linked to credit and market risk evidenced?  
Yes
No
3.7 In the case you use key risk indicators, which ones do you use? 
Number of manual errors 
Total cash shortages 
Number of documents non-compliant with regulations 
Inconsistencies identified upon IA inspections 
Other (specify)
3.8 In the event you resort to public or consortium databases, do you use any scaling techniques for 
frequency, severity, or for both? 
No
Yes, for frequency 
Yes, for severity 
Yes, for both 
3.9 Are the external data integrated with the internal ones towards the establishment of a single 
frequency and severity distribution? 
Yes
No
3.10 If so, which approach do you use? 
______________________________________________________________________________ 
3.11 In the event you use scenario analysis, which are the pieces of information collected? 
Probability and severity
Average value of loss 
Worst case scenario 
ORs embedded in processes and products 
Quality of internal controls 
Other (specify)
________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________ 
3.12 Who is assigned to structuring the questionnaire that will be used for conducting the scenario 
analysis? 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 200 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        193
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
3.13 Who are the addressees of the questionnaires? 
3.14 Is there a formalized method for building the scenarios in place?
Yes
No
3.15 In the case the business environment and internal control factors are evaluated, which is the 
organizational unit assigned to such evaluation? 
3.16 Are there in place any control mechanisms for subjective estimates? 
Yes
No
3.17 If so, which are they? 
Cross-checks between true losses and estimated expected losses 
Cross-checks between evaluations by the managers responsible for business units and those by 
Internal Auditors 
Other (specify)
Comments/details on section 3: 
4. OR in the Second Pillar 
4.1 Do you use a model for calculating the economic capital? 
Yes
No, but we are planning to adopt one 
No, and we are not planning to adopt one 
4.2 If you do use a model for calculating the economic capital, which function established it? 
Risk management 
Planning and Control 
Other (specify) 
4.3 If you do use a model for calculating the economic capital, is OR included? If so, which is its 
incidence in percentage? 
No, it is not included 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 201 ---
194        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Yes, it is included and its incidence is
4.4 If you do use a model for calculating the economic capital, does it take into account benefits 
deriving from diversification? 
No
Yes, it does include benefits deriving from diversification among the different types of risk 
Yes, it does include benefits deriving from diversification among the different business units 
Yes, it does include benefits deriving from diversification among risks and business units 
Other (specify)___________________________________________________________ 
4.5 In the case you do use models for calculating economic capital, which are the reasons that have 
led you to do so, and with which relevance? (The scale ranges from1 to 5: 1 = not relevant; 2 = little 
relevant; 3 = quite relevant; 4 = very relevant; 5 = extremely relevant) 
1
2
3
4
5
Regulatory requirements
Improvement of strategic planning 
Definition of risk appetite
Improvement of rating
Improvement of pricing
Definition of risk limits/capital allocation
Assessment of risk-adjusted performance
Other (specify)
4.6 At what level are economic capital measures used? 
At the global level to assess/allocate economic capital 
At business unit level for the evaluation of the risk-adjusted performance 
For the evaluation of the profit margin for each product/service 
For the evaluation of the profit margin at customer level 
Other (specify)
4.7 Do you have in place indicators that correlate banking performance to the level of risk? 
No
Yes, RAROC (Risk-Adjusted Return on Capital) 
Yes, RORAC (Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital) 
Yes, RARORAC (Risk-Adjusted Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital) 
Yes, EVA (Economic Value Added) 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 202 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        195
Yes, EaR (Earning at Risk) 
Other (specify)
4.8 If you do use one or more of the indicators mentioned in the previous question, what are the 
objectives you want to achieve through their use? 
Efficient capital allocation 
Assessment of the results achieved compared to the results planned 
Comparison of performance between the different business units 
Establishment of a system of incentives linked to risk 
Other (specify)
Comments/details on section 4:  
5. Insurance coverage  
5.1 Has a comparison been made between insurance contracts and events causing an OR loss? 
Yes
No
5.2 If so, has this encouraged a revision (change/renegotiation) of insurance contracts? 
Yes
No
5.3 Which organizational areas are involved in management of insurance policies? 
OR function 
Purchase and logistics 
Legal 
Other (specify)__________________________________________________________ 
5.4 Are the traditional insurance contracts supported by more innovating forms of coverage? 
Yes
No
5.5 If so, which ones? 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
Comments/ details on section 5:  
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 203 ---
196        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
6. Trade associations and outsourcing 
6.1 Is OR management within the bank supported by tasks performed by trade associations? 
Yes
No
6.2 If so, check the tasks performed by the associations 
Regional 
federation
Italian 
federation
Supporting in loss data collection 
Supporting in definition of key risk indicators for OR 
Supporting implementation of standardized approach and/or
advanced measurement approach
Advising on insurance coverage 
Supporting in the elaboration of economic capital models
Disseminating information on OR under the Third Pillar
Other (specify)
6.3 Are there any networks among BCCs that support individual banks in OR management? 
Yes
No
6.4 If so, who promoted them?
6.5 If there is one, which tasks does the network perform on behalf of your bank? 
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
6.6 Have you outsourced any phases of OR management? 
Yes
No
6.7 If so, to whom? __________________________________________________________ 
6.8 In case of outsourcing, which phases are outsourced? 
Comments/details on section 6:  
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Please, indicate the regional federation which your bank refers to______________________ 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________

--- Página 204 ---
7  Operational Risk: Evidence from Italian Cooperative Banks        197
References
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2006. Results of the fifth 
quantitative impact study (QIS 5), 16 June.
Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti. 2009. La gestione del RO nelle BCC. In Il 
Rischio operativo nelle banche italiane. Modelli, gestione e disclosure, ed. G. 
Birindelli, and P. Ferretti. Roma: Bancaria Editrice.

--- Página 205 ---
8.1	
Introduction
The current regulatory framework requires banks to provide accurate 
and comprehensive disclosure of their operational risk profile. In par-
ticular, banks are required to disclose the approaches for the assessment 
of their own funds requirements; they are required to describe the AMA 
methodology (if adopted), including a discussion of relevant internal 
and external factors considered in the measurement approach, or (in the 
case of partial use) the scope and coverage of the different methodolo-
gies used.
In order to illustrate the degree of disclosure of the OR management, 
this chapter reports the results of a survey on a sample of listed banks in 
Italy, focusing on the following areas of investigation: general aspects; 
organizational structure; measurement systems; control, mitigation and 
transfer systems; capital.
8
Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample 
of Italian Banks
© The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks, 
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5_8
199

--- Página 206 ---
200        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
8.2	
Regulatory Disclosure Requirements
Pillar 3 of the capital adequacy framework requires that banks provide 
accurate and comprehensive information on their risk profile. In par-
ticular, they must disclose their risk management objectives and poli-
cies for each category of risk (Article 435—CRR 575/2013), as well as 
information about their own funds (Article 437—CRR 575/2013). As 
to market discipline, it is worth remembering that, in the light of the 
numerous shortcomings of the previous framework evidenced during 
the international financial crisis, BCBS has been suggesting since 2014 
to modify the contents of Pillar 3 (BCBS 2014, 2015, 2016). Overall, 
the revisions intend to enable market participants to better compare the 
risk-weighted asset disclosures of the bank, and are focused on improv-
ing transparency of the internal model-based approaches adopted for 
the calculation of the minimum regulatory capital ratios.
According to current provisions, the disclosure requirements are 
expressed in a document (commonly referred as to Pillar 3 Disclosure, 
or similar) published by the bank and made accessible through a link 
on its website. Banks provide information at a level of detail that reflects 
the organizational complexity and business type. Such information 
must be arranged on the same basis and abiding by the same criteria 
used for drafting the financial statement and must be checked by the 
persons responsible for carrying out the statutory audit of accounts.
With reference to the OR, banks are required to disclose the 
approaches for the assessment of their own funds requirements; they 
are required to describe the AMA methodology (if adopted), includ-
ing a discussion of relevant internal and external factors considered in 
the measurement approach, and (in the case of partial use) the scope 
and coverage of the different methodologies used (Article 446—CRR 
575/2013).

--- Página 207 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        201
8.3	
Evidence from Italian Banks
In order to illustrate the degree of disclosure of the OR management, 
we shall review the results from an analysis conducted on a sample of 
listed banks in Italy; the aim was to check the banks’ degree of consist-
ency in reporting and the level of compliance to the disclosure require-
ments (Birindelli, Ferretti 2009). The information, which was retrieved 
through both Pillar 3 Reports and Annual Reports, addressed the fol-
lowing areas of investigation:
•	 general aspects
•	 organizational structure
•	 measurement systems
•	 control, mitigation and transfer systems
•	 capital.
8.3.1	 General Aspects
Among the general aspects, we included the definition of OR, the 
description of the main sources of manifestation of the operational risk, 
and the illustration of legal disputes.
As to the OR definitions reported, differences were found between 
Pillar 3 Reports and Annual Reports, with particular regard to the 
inclusion of legal risk and to the exclusion of strategic and reputational 
risks (specific details on inclusions and exclusions were missing from 
the Pillar 3 Reports but were instead reported in the Annual Reports, 
whereas other times the same information was provided by Pillar 3 
Reports and not by the Annual Reports). Nevertheless, the definition of 
OR resulted to be compliant with the regulatory provisions, with some 
banks providing a more summary description (in one case only citing 
the OR sources: internal and external criminal acts, business practices, 
etc.), while others offering greater detail, for example, by referring to an 
OR thereby also to the possibility of yielding a lower revenue. Finally, 
some banks also included compliance risk as part of OR.

--- Página 208 ---
202        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
Over half of the intermediaries did not dwell on explaining the main 
sources of manifestation of OR. The remaining provided this informa-
tion in the Annual Reports, among the quantitative data, except for 
one bank that recalled the information also in the Pillar 3 Reports. 
The methods followed to evidence the dynamics of the risk events and 
their impact are quite heterogeneous, as we observed by the extensive 
use of tables and pie charts, which were merely descriptive forms. Even 
the representation of the contents varied: it ranged from the percentage 
composition of OR sources by event types (in terms of size and impact), 
to the amount of losses by OR type, with a distinction in gross and 
net losses, in recoveries and insurance refunds. Often such analysis was 
completed by the generic indication of improvement interventions on 
processes and controls with the goal of OR mitigation and of contain-
ment of the corresponding losses.
In principle, the situation above also applied to legal disputes. It is 
worth noting that all banks reported the financial statement items rela-
tive to legal controversies under the “Provisions for risks and charges” 
and that more than half of the sample further detailed the matter within 
their Annual Reports.
Again the information was heterogeneous: some banks treated the 
principal legal actions (whether in progress or completed) briefly, while 
others described in detail the most complex legal disputes (in one case 
those having petitum exceeding a specific threshold), providing both 
qualitative (subject and history of the dispute) and quantitative details.
8.3.2	 Organizational Structure
The disclosure on OR organizational model was completely disre-
garded in some cases, since several banks made reference to what has 
been defined at group level. When present, the description was com-
plete or, in several cases, it involved only few profiles. This was the case 
of an intermediary who refered only on the main OR control functions: 
internal audit and compliance. Another intermediary focused only on 
the reporting activities that were addressed to top management and that 
dealt with results of the LDC process. Other banks, instead, provided

--- Página 209 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        203
some details in the Annual Reports: one bank reported on the presence 
of a centralized function which was dedicated to OR monitoring and 
collaborated with the officer in charge of the accounts and with internal 
audit; another institution reported on the activities conducted by the 
inspection unit, such as development of risk indicators, implementation 
of information technology support and definition of report contents.
Turning to the institutions that described the organizational structure 
for OR management in more detail, the first element to be represented 
was generally the OR framework, where the objectives of the ORM 
process and the formal assignment of tasks and responsibilities of the 
bodies involved were also described. In some banks, governance was also 
mentioned, with the indication of the top management involved in the 
activities of supervision, management and control.
However, the major focus was attributed to the various functions 
responsible for the OR management (and in a few cases to the relations 
among the functions), which mostly overlapped with the description 
of a head department flanked by peripheral referents. In most cases the 
head department had responsibilities at group level and was identified 
with the head OR function or, alternatively, with the OR sector, the risk 
management direction, the organization, the market and operational 
risk service. In other cases, reference was made to a general OR man-
agement on behalf of the parent company and to many actors involved 
in their respective areas of competence, such as organization, internal 
audit, compliance, legal office and supervisory board.
The most common tasks assigned to the head department were the 
following:
•	 supervising the methodological and organizational framework;
•	 defining the methodologies of OR measurement;
•	 determining regulatory and economic capital;
•	 checking the effectiveness of mitigation actions;
•	 supporting the peripheral functions and monitoring the respect of 
common standards;
•	 coordinating with other company functions (internal audit, compli-
ance, legal, organization, information technology, etc.);
•	 reporting in favour of the top management.

--- Página 210 ---
204        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
The decentralized structures (peripheral referents)—responsible for 
data collection and control at local level—in some cases resulted to be 
particularly complex. For example, four officers were identified in one 
bank: the OR referent (responded to the framework for its own entity); 
the local OR service (supported the previous one in the realization of 
the ORM process); the risk champion (supervised the management pro-
cess for the purpose of validation, in relation to its business, and par-
ticipated in OR monitoring and defining mitigation measures). Finally, 
the risk owner (signaled past and/or potential risk events and performed 
the corrective actions decided). In another bank there was a distinction 
between referents of the operating and support units and referents of 
the support units for specific OR types.
Some banks set up a specific OR committee within the parent com-
pany. Sometimes, in addition to indicating the committee composi-
tion, the bank specified its tasks, such as the periodic verification of OR 
exposure at group level, the proposal of corrective actions, the sugges-
tion of insurance strategies, the monitoring of the mitigation activities, 
the examination of the OR reports.
Some banks drew attention towards the monitoring activities of the 
OR management system performed by the internal audit, also recalling 
the check conducted on the self-assessment process. As regards the lat-
ter, some intermediaries mentioned the definition of the corresponding 
policy, others specified the responsibilities (again reporting to the area 
of risk management), and another intermediary dealt with the issue in 
more detail. Specifically, it reported the establishment of an internal val-
idation process at the parent company and the relevant entities, with the 
assignment of responsibilities to the decentralized OR functions, who 
were required to provide a summary on the activities performed and the 
functions involved and to verify the compliance of the OR management 
system to both regulatory requirements and group standards. Finally, 
whenever there was evidence of an area to improve, there was also a 
description of corrective actions and the timeline for their implementa-
tion, when possible.
In less than half of cases the description of the organizational struc-
ture was completed by the reminder on the reporting activity underlin-
ing the main contents and the recipients. The report was prepared by

--- Página 211 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        205
the functions responsible for the OR management system and generally 
addressed: the findings of the qualitative and quantitative modules of 
the OR measurement; the recoveries; the assessment of the operational 
losses of greater severity, with identification of the causes; the VaR cal-
culated for the different regulatory event types; the trend of the most 
significant risk indicators; the measures of prevention and mitigation 
with indication of effectiveness; the capital absorption. With regard to 
the periodicity of reporting, only few banks indicated frequency (1 and 
3 months), which varied according to the type of information flow pro-
duced. The recipients included the top management, the risk committee 
(and the OR committee if present) and internal audit.
Finally, some intermediaries evidenced the preparation of human 
resources training programmes, seen as fundamental also because of the 
cross-cutting nature of the ORs. In order to facilitate the dissemination 
of the OR culture, one bank declared that it would have addressed the 
training activities to the top management and operational functions. 
Another bank mentioned a structured training programme, addressed 
to all the staff actively involved in the management and mitigation of 
the ORs. Another bank included training among the tasks assigned to 
the OR decentralized functions; the head OR function was responsible 
for informing the peripheral structures about the main regulatory and 
managerial updates on OR.
8.3.3	 Measurement Systems
The interest in the measuring systems lies in the willingness to under-
stand the state of progress of the management system and the quan-
tification of the OR by the various intermediaries. The analysis is not 
only in view of regulatory compliance, but also, and above all, in that 
of implementation and progressive refinement of the ORM procedures 
and mechanisms. This is in order to strengthen and valorize decision-
making and daily management, keeping with the principle of the use 
test. These considerations apply not only to the banks adopting AMA, 
but also to those that, despite using standardized methods, intend to 
increase their awareness of OR exposure. Just as important for these is

--- Página 212 ---
206        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
the development of a framework for the identification, collection and 
classification of the loss data, and also for the assessment of the OR by 
experts, in order to identify the business areas of greater vulnerability.
Aside from the few banks that did not provide any indication on the 
measurement systems adopted, and another few that slavishly made ref-
erence to the decisions taken at group level, banks provided a descrip-
tion that confirmed the general trend to create (independently of the 
approach used to calculate capital requirement) loss data collection 
and self-assessment processes as the main parts of the quantitative and 
qualitative analysis of the OR. However, among these banks there were 
significant differences with regard to the developmental stage covered 
and, consequently, to the related level of detail of the measurement sys-
tem and of its components. For example, one bank claimed it had been 
experiencing the process’ implementation phase, while another bank 
stated it had not completed the planning of the LDC, since it consid-
ered the development of the risk assessment process as a priority.
All institutions claimed to belong to the Italian Database for 
Operational Losses, DIPO; one was also part of the Operational 
Riskdata eXchange Association, ORX, and another also relied on pub-
lic databases. The reasons for the banks taking part in DIPO were the 
effective capture of the impacts of extreme events; the integration with 
internal data; the use as benchmarking tool; the use as reference for the 
definition of census criteria and data classification; the resolution of 
interpretation doubts.
Closely linked to the international crisis was the mention by a bank 
of the activation (within DIPO) of a qualitative flow, which described 
(without breaching the principle of anonymity) the most significant 
events reported by the DIPO members in view of creating scenarios 
concerning specific risk exposures.
Only a few banks delved into the contents of LDC, whose function-
ing was always accompanied by a supporting IT device. When specified, 
the census concerned the operational loss data (one bank also men-
tioned potential losses), the recoveries (not only of the insurance type), 
the BL of OR manifestation, and further information on the event; col-
lection thresholds were reported only in a few cases. One institution

--- Página 213 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        207
also reported the periodic riconciliation of the losses with accounting 
and their real-time updating by decentralized departments.
As to the qualitative module, a generic reference to risk self-assess-
ment prevailed, identified with the procedure (often on an annual basis) 
of recording and assessing OR exposure and of checking on the ade-
quacy of the controls and of the mitigation measures that have been 
implemented. RSA was normally conducted by the process owner and 
was designed to highlight the most vulnerable areas of the bank.
The explicit distinction between scenario analysis and Business 
Environment and Internal Control Factors (BEICFs) seldom appeared. 
One bank in particular stated that the analysis of BEICFs—carried out 
through annual self-assessment on OR control—had a forward-looking 
value in highlighting the weaknesses of day by day operation. On the 
other hand, the scenario analysis—this, too, conducted every twelve 
months and addressed to top management—was designed to measure 
OR exposure to the single critical issues, in order to understand the 
changes occurred in the organizational and business context. The finan-
cial statements of another bank reported the establishment of a self-
assessment process. This process, carried out by the decentralized OR 
functions, aimed to evaluate the OR exposure at the level of organiza-
tional unit and business process, and strengthen the reporting in favour 
of the other control structures and compliance. The assessment of the 
operating context coincided with the qualitative analysis of the current 
ORs exposure that was performed through the assessment of factors of 
risk in terms of relevance and supervision and aiming to identify areas 
of vulnerability and possible mitigation actions—in line with a logic of 
proactive risk management. As emphasized by the bank, the process of 
self-assessment highlighted the existence of a good OR control and had 
contributed to the dissemination of a business culture aimed at continu-
ous monitoring of such risks.
The description of the quantitative and qualitative modules had not 
always been completed with information on the integration process of 
the components of each module (on the one hand, internal and exter-
nal data; on the other hand, scenario analyses and BEICFs), and of the 
modules themselves. Detail on this aspect was only provided by the 
banks that had already adopted AMA, by those that intended to use it

--- Página 214 ---
208        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
shortly, inevitably related to the determination of capital requirement 
for operational risk.
8.3.4	 Control, Mitigation and Transfer Systems
With regard to control, mitigation and transfer systems, almost all the 
banks provided information on the business continuity management 
projects, namely on emergency and business continuity plans, aimed 
at ensuring the ongoing performance of the activity and at limiting the 
operational losses in case of serious operational interruptions.
Some heterogeneity was found with regard to other measures of con-
trol and reduction of the ORs. Reference was sometimes quite generic. 
One bank summarized the phases of the mitigation process (analysis 
of the critical issues and of the solutions in cost/benefit terms; choice, 
planning and start of the actions, with control on their effectiveness; 
management of the transfer solutions). Other banks described the vari-
ety of the interventions adopted or still to be adopted, including busi-
ness process re-engineering, outsourcing, corrective actions for the 
repositioning of the OR at acceptable levels, risk mapping review and 
recourse to insurance.
Further details were found in other cases. For example, one bank 
claimed that it had taken steps to regulate the start of businesses in 
innovative sectors, subjecting start-up to authorization by the board of 
directors, after having assessed the risks, identified the competent organ-
izational structures, and prepared the control procedures. Another inter-
mediary informed on the functioning of a process addressed to ongoing 
evaluation of controls for the prevention of fraud risks.
The insurance mechanism for OR transfer was analysed in few cases 
and in an inconsistent manner: some banks focused on the types of 
operational risk covered, others on the use of the policies and others, 
again, on the organizational aspects.
Among the type of insurance contracts, banks mentioned a few spe-
cific cases: policies against general risks, and for staff safety; policies 
safeguarding employees, assets of greater value and cash management; 
policies including the protection of physical assets, and against the

--- Página 215 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        209
risk of fraud and on liability. Finally, other policies provided coverage 
against risks deriving from facts concerning third parties and any dam-
age caused to third parties and thus had appropriate contractual clauses 
included in the contract as safeguard against damage caused by infra-
structure and service providers.
Regarding the use of insurance instruments, one intermediary under-
lined their adoption in function of reducing unexpected losses; another 
bank specified that such tools were not employed for supervisory pur-
poses. Finally, a bank declared it had renewed the expiring contracts 
with the aim of using them to reduce absorption of regulatory capital, 
once it had fulfilled regulatory standards.
Only one institution underlined the involvement of the OR function 
in the decisional process related to insurance that consisted in an analy-
sis of OR exposure, of the effectiveness of deductibles, and of limits of 
the policies. The geographical complexity of this bank had emphasized 
the need to reduce the differences among the various settings. To this 
purpose, some policies were grouped at sub-holding level on the basis 
of the single country, or at group level. In line with the general trend to 
contract with higher indemnity limits than with lower deductibles, this 
however was adjusted in consideration of the local interpretation of the 
companies.
8.3.5	 Capital
The last section, capital, focuses on the aspect of capital measurement 
(seen from the perspective of compliance with Pillar 1) and on the 
quantification of OR exposure for internal purposes. With regard to the 
first aspect, within the disclosure on capital adequacy, all banks indi-
cated the amount of OR capital requirement, as for the other Pillar 1 
risks.
In the case of combined use of the standardized approach and the 
basic indicator approach, the banks specified the criteria of allocation 
of the relevant indicators to BLs. One bank described the stages of clas-
sification of the activities into the BLs, by distinguishing the mapping 
of data and the calculation of capital requirement. It first had performed

--- Página 216 ---
210        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
data mapping at individual level by allocating each management cen-
tre in the pertinent regulatory BL; then, it identified the sources of the 
income figures of these centres and the distribution criteria (in the pres-
ence of multiple activities). On the basis of the mapping, each company 
defined the values according to the management centre, performed the 
allocation into the BLs, and determined the capital requirement. The 
same bank finally added that in the case of entities adopting the BIA, 
it identified the details of the gross income, with particular attention 
to the intra-group component subdivided by company. For the other 
intermediaries the allocation of the gross income into the BLs was based 
on accounting and management principles: one intermediary specified 
that it used the findings of the ledger that inform the financial state-
ment as well as the data of the management control system.
The issue of economic capital measurement was addressed by only a 
few banks, sometimes with weak reference to matters concerning the 
Second Pillar, and never discussed explicitly with regard to OR, but 
rather, mentioning it in reference to the whole set of banking risks. 
One intermediary expressed the intention to further explore advanced 
metrics, in order to estimate the internal capital. Another interme-
diary specified that the criteria and logics for the calculation of capi-
tal requirement were used, in respect of the guidelines defined in the 
budgeting and planning process, also for the quantification of prospec-
tive capital. Two intermediaries claimed that they measured both the 
economic and regulatory capital to determine capital absorbance per 
BU through the SA; of these banks one also used an internal model—
subject of validation—of the LDA type (see Chap. 6), integrating the 
information sources related to internal and external data and the RSA 
scenarios using the Bayesian method. Another bank mentioned the use 
of ORVaR, based on the Poisson function for the distribution of fre-
quency and on the Weibull or lognormal function for the distribution 
of severity, in order to asses OR exposure for internal purposes; the fore-
cast of an OR tolerance model moved in the same direction.
The banks that applied AMA or that had applied for authorization to 
do so dealt with the economic capital when they analysed the method 
of calculating capital requirement with a good degree of detail.

--- Página 217 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        211
In a case of prevalidation, the bank carried out an actuarial analysis 
of internal and external data with a separate study of the frequency and 
severity of the events and subsequent creation of annual loss distribu-
tion by the Monte Carlo approach. The qualitative assessments, pro-
cessed by means of statistical-actuarial techniques, led to an estimate of 
unexpected loss, which integrated the former estimate. The capital at 
risk was defined as the minimum capital—at the consolidated level and 
net of insurance—as required in order to cope with maximum potential 
loss. Such capital was estimated through LDA, applied to the quantita-
tive data and to the results of the scenario analyses over a one-year time 
horizon and with a confidence interval equal to 99.96%. The effective-
ness of internal controls set up in the operating units was assessed by 
applying a correction factor resulting from the risk analysis of the oper-
ating context.
As for the intermediaries already authorized to use AMA, one bank 
confirmed that for the purpose of risk capital calculation the classes it 
had taken into account corresponded to the types of operational event. 
All classes were estimated separately for frequency (only on internal 
data) and severity (on internal and external data and on scenario analy-
sis), in order to reach a distribution of annual losses through simulation, 
taking into account insurance coverage. Each class was adjusted in func-
tion of risk indicators; stochastic dependence among the various risk 
classes was obtained on the basis of internal data; the annual loss dis-
tributions, realized for each class, were aggregated through copula func-
tions using the t-Student method. The capital at risk was calculated in 
relation to aggregate loss distribution at a confidence level of 99.9%, as 
required by the supervisory regulations, and of 99.97% for the determi-
nation of the economic capital. Allocation mechanisms allowed identi-
fying capital absorption of each entity reflecting the efficacy of the OR 
management process.
Also another bank authorized to use AMA had adopted a mixed 
model LDA-Scenario type. The quantitative component was based on 
the collection, analysis and statistical modelling of the internal and 
external data; capital calculation took into account the seven categories 
of regulatory events through Extreme Value Theory (EVT) techniques 
(Chap. 6); the frequency and severity were estimated according to event

--- Página 218 ---
212        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
types. The qualitative component was focused on the evaluation of the 
units’ risk profile and on the identification of relevant scenarios; statis-
tical techniques attributable to the credibility theory were used for its 
integration. The output of the measurement model, obtained at group 
level, was reallocated on the basis of historical loss criteria, of top man-
agement estimates and of income information (such as gross income) 
and used for internal purposes.
Some of the considerations reported by this latter bank were par-
ticularly interesting, especially in reference to the positive implications 
of the use of AMA, which had allowed a more conscious OR manage-
ment, ensuring a progressive reduction of the related exposure. The 
need was emphasized to closely monitor the initiatives of integration 
and corporate reorganization that had been undertaken, since they 
were strongly insidious in terms of OR exposure. The concern that the 
changes induced by similar processes might have constituted a danger-
ous source of operational risk exposure was also evidenced from the 
reading of the financial statement, which evidenced that suitable sce-
nario analyses had been conducted to assess the risks associated with 
disfunctions or inadequacies in the processes, in information systems 
or in the management of human resources, with specific reference to 
merger and acquisition operations.
8.4	
Conclusions
Overall, the reports clearly evidence a heterogeneity among informa-
tion provided. In particular, the descriptions provided by the participat-
ing banks offer little insight on the specific features of the operational 
risks management, measurement, control and mitigation systems 
implemented, and prevent an extensive comparison of measures taken 
by banks to manage their OR exposures. As to the comparability of 
the results, this too was affected by the low degree of uniformity of 
the subjects analysed and the uneven level of detail among the various 
areas of disclosure. Indeed only a few institutions covered all the areas 
of disclosure with equal accuracy, while the majority provided detailed

--- Página 219 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        213
information limitedly to very few areas leaving all the other areas 
scarcely addressed, if not addressed at all.
The different degree of disclosure provided by the banks and the dif-
ferent relevance of the various areas of disclosure, with an emphasis on 
some aspects compared to others, can be easily verified by assigning a 
score to each of the items forming each area of disclosure. Based on the 
information in the previous sections, we have selected the indicators 
which are most significant in our opinion and which fall into four areas. 
We have then assigned a rating of disclosure to each bank by means of 
the sum of partial scores that take into account (in all except one case) 
the amplitude and deepening of the contents of the information pro-
duced1. A summary of the indicators, classified by area of disclosure, 
and the assignment criteria of the relative scores appear in Table 8.1.
Table 8.1  Assignment of the disclosure rating (own processing)
Areas of 
 disclosure
Indicator
Score
General aspects
OR definition
Main sources of OR
Legal disputes and possible losses
For all the indicator 
(unless otherwise 
said), the score is:
0 = information is 
missing
0.5 = information is 
not clear or compre-
hensive
1 = information is clear 
and comprehensive
Organizational 
structure
Preparation of the OR frame-
work
Formalization of the governance 
mechanism
Organizational functions 
involved and their tasks
Inter-relations among the 
organizational functions
Internal validation
Reporting
Training
Measurement 
systems
Method adopted for calculating 
the capital requirement for OR
Use of mitigation tools for reduc-
ing the capital requirement
Analysis of the OR measurement 
for internal purposes
Methods for calculating the 
economic capital for OR
0 = information miss-
ing;
1 = information pro-
vided
Control and mitiga-
tion systems
Mitigation and transfer tools
Business continuity management

--- Página 220 ---
214        G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti
The assignment of scores to each item and the relative sum leads to 
ratings that range from a minimum value of 2 to a maximum of 14, 
with wide dispersion with respect to average, equal to 5.9. High vari-
ability of information provided by banks can be easily understood by a 
chart that ranks all the banks with respect to average value (Fig. 8.1).
As expected, the intermediaries with higher rating (equal or superior 
to 10) are already using AMA, and are flanked by institutions strongly 
aimed at achieving the most advanced methodology in the short term.
However, the different levels of openness to disclosure of the four 
areas may be understood by comparing the difference, calculated for 
each area and compared to the maximum possible score, between the 
latter and the average score (Table 8.2). Even in this case the deviations 
are in line with our expectations: the sections most wealthy on infor-
mation refer to the general aspects and to the control and mitigation 
systems; whereas the measurement systems and—more importantly—
organization are less explored. These latter areas are the most articulated 
in terms of requirements, although with different types of prevailing 
information: the area containing more descriptive information (organi-
zation) indicates wider refinement and in-depth spaces, pointing out 
that the transmission of quality contents—which for their very nature 
may be liable to vague statements—limits the level of disclosure.
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Banks
Average 
Fig. 8.1  The disclosure rating (own processing)

--- Página 221 ---
8  Disclosure on OR: Evidence from a Sample of Italian Banks        215
Note
1.	 Despite our awareness of the discretional nature embedded in grading 
the information in function of its contents, we preferred follow this 
approach for all indicators featuring extremely heterogeneous levels of 
detail. Only in one specific case we opted to assign the score based on 
the absence/presence of the indicator.
References
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2014. Review of the Pillar 
3 disclosure requirements, June 2014.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2015. Revised Pillar 3 dis-
closure requirements, January 2015.
BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision). 2016. Pillar 3 disclosure 
requirements—consolidated and enhanced framework. Consultative docu-
ment, March 2016.
Birindelli, G., and P. Ferretti. 2009. Il rischio operativo nelle banche italiane. 
Roma: Bancaria Editrice.
Table 8.2  Areas of disclosure: average and maximum value (own processing)
Areas of 
­disclosure
Number of 
indicators
Average  
score
Maximum 
score
Maximum 
score—­
average score
General 
aspects
3
1.9
3
1.1
Organization
7
1.7
7
5.3
Measurement 
systems
4
1.4
4
2.6
Control and 
mitigation 
systems
2
0.8
2
1.2

--- Página 222 ---
217
© The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s) 2017 
G. Birindelli and P. Ferretti, Operational Risk Management in Banks, 
Palgrave Macmillan Studies in Banking and Financial Institutions,  
DOI 10.1057/978-1-137-59452-5
A
Advanced Measurement Approach 
(AMA) 15, 24, 37, 38, 47, 170, 
177
Alternative Risk Transfer (ART) 124
B
Bank 2, 4, 5, 12, 13, 22, 26, 29, 
32, 33, 43–50, 58, 62, 69, 
70, 72, 76, 83, 90, 97, 100, 
103–105, 112, 116, 117, 119, 
120, 122, 124, 125, 127, 136, 
138, 154, 161, 162, 170, 173, 
175, 176, 180, 182–184, 200, 
202–213
Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision (BCBS) 2, 14, 
29–32, 32, 37, 38, 63–65, 69, 
70–72, 76, 95, 98, 101, 102, 
113, 122, 123, 170, 186, 200
Basel II 2, 14, 28, 33, 38, 65
Basel III 2, 3, 38, 65
Basic Indicator Approach (BIA) 
37–39, 170, 177
Board of directors 4, 68, 70, 72, 73, 
80, 82, 98, 105, 173,  
177, 180
Boundary loss 72, 178
Business continuity 82, 84, 89, 102, 
105, 208, 213
Business Environment and Internal 
Control Factors (BEICF) 48, 
49, 60, 96, 153, 177–180
Business line (BL) 1, 19, 20, 33, 
40–43, 45, 46, 49, 55, 74, 76, 
83, 92, 135, 139, 140
C
Calculation dataset 135, 137, 140
Capital adequacy 38, 39, 200, 209
Index

--- Página 223 ---
218        Index
Capital requirement 2, 3, 13, 20, 21, 
24, 37, 38, 43, 45–48, 50–53, 
62, 64, 79, 111, 113–116, 
134–136, 170, 176, 185, 
208–210, 213
Capital Requirements Regulation 
(CRR) 2, 14, 38
Claim 16, 112, 114, 126–130,  
185
Compliance
function 32, 91, 94–96
risk 9, 21, 28–33, 94–96, 201
Cooperative bank (BCC) 7,  
169, 170
Coverage 37, 38, 54, 62, 79, 82, 
112–116, 118, 119, 122, 
125–131, 159, 169, 182, 200, 
209, 211
Credit risk 2, 14, 20–22, 47, 50, 58, 
137, 170
D
Database
set 56
Date
of accounting 56, 135, 140
of detection 135, 136
of discovery 56
of occurence 56, 95,  
135, 136
Disclosure 6, 17, 64, 171, 199–202, 
209, 212–215
E
European Banking Authority (EBA) 
50–53, 55–59, 73, 93,  
112–114
Event type 16, 33, 45, 49, 55, 62, 95, 
100, 120, 123, 124, 131, 138, 
140, 202, 205
Expected loss 48, 54, 91, 117, 134, 
179
External data 48–50, 52, 55, 58, 59, 
113, 137, 154, 157, 162, 178, 
180, 207, 210, 211
External factors 199, 200
External fraud 17, 123
F
Financial
collapse 1, 4, 11, 12, 32, 67, 68
crisis 1, 2, 19, 38, 39, 68, 200, 
206
institution 1, 5, 11, 12, 15, 19, 
20, 24, 25, 27, 38, 89, 125, 
126, 206
scandal 1, 13, 27, 32
Framework 2–4, 6, 13, 33, 37, 38, 
42, 44, 46, 49, 52–54, 59, 62, 
64, 65, 70, 71, 74, 75, 78–81, 
83, 87–89, 102, 105, 112, 113, 
159, 199, 203, 213
Fraud 12, 15, 20, 21, 23, 28, 58, 103
external 16, 22, 30, 95, 124, 174
internal 4, 16, 22, 29, 30, 68, 92, 
136
Frequency 16, 19, 55, 61, 90, 91, 99, 
117, 118, 137, 141, 155, 157, 
160, 177, 178, 180, 205, 211
Frequency distribution 134, 146, 157
G
Governance 4, 6, 39, 44, 52, 53, 67, 
68, 73, 93, 99, 102, 203, 213

--- Página 224 ---
Index        219
I
Information technology 20, 27, 69, 
81, 99, 125
Insurance 4, 6, 50, 52, 54, 55, 80, 
111–113
coverage 7, 77, 80, 89, 112, 114, 
118, 120, 122, 130, 160, 171
policies 4, 62, 77, 82, 103, 
113–116, 118, 120, 182
Insurance mapping process 113
Insurer 55, 112, 114, 115
Internal audit 6, 20, 46, 47, 68, 71, 
72, 81, 84, 91–93, 103, 104, 
160, 172, 173, 176
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP) 39, 172
Internal data 48, 49, 52, 54–59, 113, 
122, 137, 162, 178, 180, 206, 
211
Internal factors 199, 200
Internal fraud 17, 123
Internal process 2, 14, 29, 31, 137
Italian banks 7, 201
Italian Database for Operational 
Losses (DIPO) 30, 137, 206
K
Key risk indicator (KRI) 47, 72, 90, 
98, 160, 177
L
Legal risk 2, 14, 15, 25, 28–32, 56, 
62, 174, 176, 201
Loss 2, 4, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 21, 22, 
24, 26
data 3, 21, 43, 56, 60, 82, 95, 96, 
138, 141, 143, 151, 161, 162, 
164, 177, 206
event type 16
Loss Data Collection (LDC) 46, 75, 
82, 95, 104, 173, 183, 186
Loss Distribution Approach (LDA) 5, 
133, 134
M
Market risk 2, 10, 14, 20, 21, 23, 24, 
32, 42, 53, 57, 135, 179
O
Operational loss 2, 4, 16, 17, 39, 45, 
64, 79, 93, 96, 98, 120, 131, 
135, 136, 144, 208
Operational risk (OR) 1, 2, 4–7, 9, 
10, 13, 14, 19–23, 25, 28–30, 
32, 33, 37, 38, 43, 44, 52, 65, 
67, 70, 71, 74, 76–82, 84, 87, 
88, 91, 92, 95, 97–100, 103, 
104, 106, 116, 117, 130, 134, 
135, 145, 148, 150, 151, 159, 
163, 170, 180, 184, 201, 208
Operational risk Committee (OR) 
Committee 76, 77, 80, 82, 84, 
87, 97
Operational risk (OR)culture 70, 73, 
173
Operational risk event (OR) event 
95, 156
Operational risk function (OR) func-
tion 32, 72, 85, 87,  
173, 176

--- Página 225 ---
220        Index
Operational risk management 
(ORM) 2–7, 9, 14, 19, 25, 39, 
52, 54, 65, 67, 70, 72, 74, 75, 
83, 87, 93, 105, 106, 130, 131, 
169, 173, 176, 212, 213
Operational risk mitigation tech-
niques 111
Operational risk modelling 6, 133
Organizational structure 7, 42, 67, 
68, 75, 92, 163, 184, 185, 199, 
201, 204, 208
Outsourcing 18, 118, 169, 171, 184, 
208
Own fund requirement 6, 22, 25, 39, 
40, 43, 51, 53, 55, 56, 60, 61, 
65, 116, 199, 200
P
Pillar 3 6, 38, 64, 200–202
Q
Qualitative standard 47, 52, 64
Quantitative standard 47, 48, 52, 54
R
Recovery 22, 55, 103, 112, 122–124
Regulatory framework 3, 6, 64, 112
Regulatory Technical Standards 
(RTS) 50–52
Relevant indicator 39, 40, 42–46, 88, 
209
Reporting 6, 11, 21, 43, 58, 72, 75, 
80, 83, 95, 97, 98, 172, 174, 
175, 177, 201, 204, 205, 207
Reputational risk 2, 14, 21, 26, 27, 
31, 127, 176, 201
Risk self assessment 88, 95
Risk transfer mechanisms 50, 52–54, 
111, 112, 115
S
Scenario analysis 48, 52, 55, 72, 92, 
135, 157, 161, 163, 178, 180, 
207, 211
Scenario Based Approach (SBA) 6
Scope of operational risk 15, 24–26
Second Pillar 7, 169, 171, 180, 210
Senior management 4, 42, 43, 68, 
70–74, 94, 97–99, 105
Severity 19, 55, 59, 61, 91, 99, 117, 
137, 141, 142, 144, 152, 156, 
157, 160, 178, 205, 210, 211
Severity distribution 134, 142, 157
Standardised Approach (SA) 38, 39, 
42–47, 76, 121
Standardised Measurement Approach 
(SMA) 64
Strategic risk 15, 21, 25, 26, 176
Supervisory authority 3, 46
Survey 7, 59, 153, 169–171, 175, 
182, 184, 199
System 2, 4, 7, 11, 14, 15, 17–19, 
23, 26, 27, 29–32, 42–49, 
51–54, 60, 61, 67–71, 74, 75, 
78, 87, 89, 92, 93, 95, 98, 99, 
106, 113, 117, 118, 123, 126, 
129, 152, 169, 171, 173, 174, 
176, 177, 185, 186, 199, 201, 
205, 206, 210, 212–215

--- Página 226 ---
Index        221
System failure 16, 100
T
Top management 67, 118, 127, 
172–174, 202, 205, 207, 212
U
Use test 47, 52, 63, 92, 205
V
Value at Risk (VaR) 62, 134, 146, 152

