=== Phishing .pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
PHISHING 
Phishing is a form of social engineering in which a cyber 
threat actor poses as a trustworthy colleague, acquaintance, 
or organization to lure a victim into providing sensitive 
information or network access. The lures can come in the 
form of an email, text message, or even a phone call. If 
successful, this technique could enable threat actors to gain 
initial access to a network and affect the targeted 
organization and related third parties. The result can be a 
data breach, data or service loss, identity fraud, malware 
infection, or ransomware.  
Phishing susceptibility is the likelihood of an individual 
becoming a victim of a phishing attempt. High susceptibility 
increases the likelihood that cyber threat actors can exploit 
their target. 
Don't be a victim! You can prevent phishing success and 
limit its negative impacts, should initial access occur. Here's 
how this adversarial technique works: 
Analysis and findings presented in 
this infographic are derived from 
phishing-related data collected during 
CISA Assessments. CISA conducts 
cybersecurity assessments for federal 
and critical infrastructure partners to 
reduce their vulnerability exposure 
and risk of compromise. To lear n
 more about CISA services, contact 
central@cisa.dhs.gov. For additional 
information on steps to reduce your 
phishing susceptibility and 
cybersecurity risk, see CISA’s 
Cross-Sector Cybersecurity 
Performance Goals (CPG).  
1 SELECT 
THE BAIT 
Threat actors pose as colleagues, acquaintances, 
or reputable organizations and solicit sensitive 
information or lure victims into downloading and 
executing malware. Bait typically consist of an email 
with a subject line that entices the user into 
opening the email, e.g., the subject line contains an 
alert, an action, or request for information. CISA 
Phishing Campaign Assessments revealed these 
most successful subject lines: 
Financial security alerts 
and updates 
Organization-wide 
announcements and 
updates 
User-specific alerts, such 
as training updates 
2 SETTHE 
HOOK 
A single bite can lead to successful exploitation. 
Threat actors set multiple hooks to increase 
their chance of success and then wait for a 
victim to take the bait. 
8 10
OUT 
OF 
organizations had at least one 
individual who fell victim to a 
phishing attempt by CISA 
Assessment teams. 
1
10
OUT 
OF 
phishing emails sent by CISA 
Assessors had a user execute a 
malicious attachment or interact 
with a malicious link.  
3 REEL IN 
THE CATCH 
OF THE DAY 
The threat actor reels in the catch of the day when an 
email is not blocked by network border or endpoint 
protections and reaches a victim who replies with 
valuable information or executes a spoofed link or 
attachment. The threat actor can then feast on 
sensitive information, credentials, or the ability to 
compromise the endpoint via malware disguised as 
links and attachments. 
70%
of all attached files or links containing malware were 
not blocked by network border protection services. 
15%
of all malicious attachments or links were not 
blocked by endpoint protections, which are set up to 
reduce the amount of unwanted or malicious activity. 
84%
Within the first 10 minutes of receiving a malicious 
email, 84% of employees took the bait by either 
replying with sensitive information or interacting with a 
spoofed link or attachment. 
13%
of targeted employees reported the phishing attempts. Employee failure to report 
phishing attempts limits the organization's ability respond to the intrusion and alert 
others to the threat.  
! 
! 
!

--- Página 2 ---
˜
ACTIONS TO HELP PREVENT 
BEING HOOKED IN A 
PHISHING ATTACK 
Phishing is a form of social engineering in which a cyber threat actor poses as a trustworthy 
colleague, acquaintance, or organization to lure a victim into providing sensitive information 
or network access. The lures can come in the form of an email, text message, or even a 
phone call. If successful, this technique could enable threat actors to gain initial access to a 
network and affect the targeted organization and related third parties. The result can be a 
data breach, data or service loss, identity fraud, malware infection, or ransomware. 
Phishing susceptibility is the likelihood of an individual becoming a victim of a phishing 
attempt. High susceptibility increases the likelihood that cyber threat actors can exploit 
their target. 
Analysis and findings presented in this infographic are derived from phishing-related data collected during CISA 
Assessments. CISA conducts cybersecurity assessments for federal and critical infrastructure partners to reduce their 
vulnerability exposure and risk of compromise. To learn more about CISA services, contact central@cisa.dhs.gov. 
For additional information on steps to reduce your phishing susceptibility and cybersecurity risk, see 
CISA’s Cross-Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals (CPG).  
1 BLOCK THE BAIT 
4 
Implement strong network border protections — 
as an initial barrier to reduce the opportunity for 
a successful phishing attempt to further its 
damage. 
Configure email servers to utilize protocols 
designed to verify the legitimacy of email 
communications, like Sender Policy Framework 
(SPF), DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM), and 
Domain-Based Message Authentication, 
Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC) [CPG 8.3]. 
Incorporate denylists or cyber threat intelligence 
feeds into firewall rules to block known malicious 
domains, URLs, and IP addresses. 
2 DON’T TAKE 
THE BAIT 
Educate employees to recognize common 
indicators of phishing, such as suspicious 
sender email addresses, generic 
greetings, spoofed hyperlinks, spelling or 
layout errors, and suspicious attachments 
[CPG 4.3]. 
Teach employees to keep their guard 
up on all communications platforms, 
including social media, and flag 
suspicious correspondence for security 
review [CPG 4.3]. 
3 REPORT THE HOOK! 
When employees report malicious communica-
tions, incident responders analyze the threat in 
the hopes of preventing the threat actor from 
widening the intrusion [CPG 7.1, 7.2]: 
Incident responders can determine if the 
attack was an isolated incident or if it is 
an attack across the organization. 
Incident responders can identify indicators 
to implement within the security protection 
mechanism to prevent the attack from 
impacting the entire organization. 
Educate employees on what to do when they 
receive a phishing email—regardless of whether 
they fell for it [CPG 4.3]: 
Report the email to the appropriate 
security teams. 
Do not forward the malicious email to 
others within the organization. 
PROTECT THE WATERS 
After obtaining initial access via a 
successful phishing attempt, threat 
actors will often try to take control of 
its victim’s account or devices 
to move laterally within the 
organization’s network. To protect 
the network: 
Continually assess and evaluate defense 
mechanisms by enrolling in no-cost CISA 
services, such as Phishing Campaign 
Assessments, to reduce risk [CPG 5.6]. 
Enforce phishing-resistant multifactor authentication 
to secure resources and protect from lateral 
movement [CPG 1.3]. 
Review and reduce the number of accounts with 
access to critical data and devices [CPG 1.7]. 
Restrict administrative password sharing and re-use 
and remove non-essential elevated privileges from 
users to reduce opportunities for privilege escalation 
[CPG 1.5, 1.6]. 
Add protection at the endpoint as the  last line of 
defense between the user and a threat actor’s attack. 
Automate mandatory security updates for browsers, 
applications, software, and antivirus on all internet-ac-
cessible end user devices [CPG 5.1]. 
Implement software restriction policies to allow only 
software necessary for business purposes on end user 
devices [CPG 2.1, 2.2]. 
Implement an endpoint detection and response (EDR) 
solution to further monitor for and block malicious 
activity on end user devices.

