=== Risk_management_for_central_banks_and_other_public_investors_by.pdf ===

--- Página 2 ---
This page intentionally left blank

--- Página 3 ---
Risk Management for Central Banks
and Other Public Investors
Domestic and foreign ﬁnancial assets of all central banks and public wealth funds
worldwide are estimated to have reached more than USD 12 trillion in 2007. How
do these institutions manage such unprecedented growth in their ﬁnancial assets
and how have they responded to the ‘revolution’ of risk management techniques
during the last ﬁfteen years? This book surveys the fundamental issues and
techniques associated with risk management and shows how central banks and
other public investors can create better risk management frameworks. Each chapter
looks at a speciﬁc area of risk management, ﬁrst presenting general problems and
then showing how these materialize in the special case of public institutions.
Written by a team of risk management experts from the European Central Bank,
this much-needed survey is an ideal resource for those concerned with the
increasingly important task of managing risk in central banks and other public
institutions.
Ulrich Bindseil is Head of the Risk Management Division at the European Central
Bank.
Fernando Gonza´lez is Principal Economist at the European Central Bank.
Evangelos Tabakis is Deputy Head of the Risk Management Division at the European
Central Bank.

--- Página 5 ---
Risk Management for
Central Banks and
Other Public Investors
Edited by
Ulrich Bindseil, Fernando Gonza´lez and
Evangelos Tabakis

--- Página 6 ---
CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Cambridge, New York, Melbourne, Madrid, Cape Town, Singapore, Sao Paulo
Cambridge University Press
The Edinburgh Building, Cambridge CB2 8RU, UK
First published in print format
ISBN-13    978-0-521-51856-7
ISBN-13
978-0-511-47916-8
© Cambridge University Press 2009
2009
Information on this title: www.cambridge.org/9780521518567
This publication is in copyright. Subject to statutory exception and to the 
provision of relevant collective licensing agreements, no reproduction of any part
may take place without the written permission of Cambridge University Press.
Cambridge University Press has no responsibility for the persistence or accuracy 
of urls for external or third-party internet websites referred to in this publication, 
and does not guarantee that any content on such websites is, or will remain, 
accurate or appropriate.
Published in the United States of America by Cambridge University Press, New York
www.cambridge.org
eBook (EBL)
hardback

--- Página 7 ---
Contents
List of ﬁgures
page x
List of tables
xii
List of boxes
xv
Foreword
xvii
Jose´-Manuel Gonza´lez-Pa´ramo
Introduction
xx
Ulrich Bindseil, Fernando Gonza´lez and Evangelos Tabakis
Part I
Investment operations
1
1
Central banks and other public institutions as ﬁnancial investors
3
Ulrich Bindseil
1
Introduction
3
2
Public institutions’ speciﬁcities as investors
4
3
How policy tasks have made central banks large-scale investors
10
4
Optimal degree of diversiﬁcation of public institutions’
ﬁnancial assets
17
5
How actively should public institutions manage their
ﬁnancial assets?
23
6
Policy-related risk factors
29
7
The role of central bank capital – a simple model
34
8
Integrated risk management for public investors
41
9
Conclusions
48
2
Strategic asset allocation for ﬁxed-income investors
49
Matti Koivu, Fernando Monar Lora, and Ken Nyholm
1
Introduction
49
2
A primer on strategic asset allocation
50
3
Components of the ECB investment process
68
v

--- Página 8 ---
4
Forward-looking modelling of the stochastic factors
75
5
Optimization models for SAA under a shortfall approach
89
6
The ECB case: an application
99
3
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ investment
portfolios
117
Han van der Hoorn
1
Introduction
117
2
Credit risk in central bank and other public investors’ portfolios
118
3
The ECB’s approach towards credit risk modelling: issues
and parameter choices
122
4
Simulation results
143
5
Conclusions
155
4
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting
157
Andres Manzanares and Henrik Schwartzlose
1
Introduction
157
2
Overview of the distribution of portfolio management tasks
within the Eurosystem
159
3
Limits
161
4
Portfolio management oversight tasks
179
5
Reporting on risk and performance
189
6
IT and risk management
196
5
Performance measurement
207
Herve´ Bourquin and Roman Marton
1
Introduction
207
2
Rules for return calculation
208
3
Two-dimensional analysis: risk-adjusted performance measures
213
4
Performance measurement at the ECB
219
6
Performance attribution
222
Roman Marton and Herve´ Bourquin
1
Introduction
222
2
Multi-factor return decomposition models
224
3
Fixed-income portfolios: risk factor derivation
228
4
Performance attribution models
241
5
The ECB approach to performance attribution
257
6
Conclusions
267
vi
Contents

--- Página 9 ---
Part II:
Policy operations
269
7
Risk management and market impact of central bank
credit operations
271
Ulrich Bindseil and Francesco Papadia
1
Introduction
271
2
The collateral framework and efﬁcient risk mitigation
274
3
A cost–beneﬁt analysis of a central bank collateral
framework
284
4
Conclusions
300
8
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment in central
bank policy operations
303
Fernando Gonza´lez and Phillipe Molitor
1
Introduction
303
2
Assessment of collateral credit quality
307
3
Collateral valuation: marking to market
315
4
Haircut determination methods
318
5
Limits as a risk mitigation tool
337
6
Conclusions
338
9
Collateral and risk mitigation frameworks of central bank
policy operations – a comparison across central banks
340
Evangelos Tabakis and Benedict Weller
1
Introduction
340
2
General comparison of the three collateral frameworks
342
3
Eligibility criteria
348
4
Credit risk assessment and risk control framework
353
5
Conclusions
357
10
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio – an application to the
Eurosystem’s collateralized lending operations
359
Elke Heinle and Matti Koivu
1
Introduction
359
2
Simulating credit risk
360
3
Simulating liquidity-related risks
366
4
Issues related to concentration risks
368
5
Risk measures: Credit Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall
376
6
An efﬁcient Monte Carlo approach for credit risk estimation
379
vii
Contents

--- Página 10 ---
7
Residual risk estimation for the Eurosystem’s credit operations
387
8
Conclusions
393
11
Central bank ﬁnancial crisis management from a risk
management perspective
394
Ulrich Bindseil
1
Introduction
394
2
Typology of ﬁnancial crisis management measures
396
3
Review of some key results of the literature
399
4
Financial stability role of central bank operational framework
416
5
The inertia principle of central bank risk management
in crisis situations
418
6
Equal access FCM measures
422
7
FCM measures addressed to individual banks (ELA)
434
8
Conclusions
437
Part III: Organizational issues and operational risk
441
12
Organizational issues in the risk management function
of central banks
443
Evangelos Tabakis
1
Introduction
443
2
Relevance of the risk management function in a central bank
444
3
Risk management best practices for ﬁnancial institutions
445
4
Six principles in the organization of risk management
in central banks
448
5
Conclusions
459
13
Operational risk management in central banks
460
Jean-Charles Sevet
1
Introduction
460
2
Central bank speciﬁc ORM challenges
463
3
Deﬁnition of operational risk
465
4
ORM as overarching framework
468
5
Taxonomy of operational risk
469
6
The ORM lifecycle
471
7
Operational risk tolerance policy
472
8
Top-down self-assessments
476
viii
Contents

--- Página 11 ---
9
Bottom-up self-assessments
479
10
ORM governance
483
11
KRIs and ORM reporting
484
12
Conclusions
488
References
490
Index
507
ix
Contents

--- Página 12 ---
Figures
2.1
Evolution of Strategic Asset Allocation
page 53
2.2
The efﬁcient frontier
59
2.3
Adapted efﬁcient frontier and VaR constraint
65
2.4
Efﬁcient frontier in E[r]–VaR space
66
2.5
Components of an investment process
69
2.6
The overall policy structure of the investment process
73
2.7
Modular structure of SAA tools
76
2.8
Generic yield curves
103
2.9
Normal macroeconomic evolution: (a) GDP YoY % Growth;
(b) CPI YoY % Growth
105
2.10
Projected average evolution of the US Government yield curve
in a normal example
106
2.11
Projected distribution of yields in a normal example:
(a) US Gov 0–1Y; (b) US Gov 7–10Y
107
2.12
Distribution of returns in a normal example: (a) US Gov 0–1Y;
(b) US Gov 7–10Y
109
2.13
Inﬂationary macroeconomic evolution: (a) GDP YoY %
Growth; (b) CPI YoY % Growth
112
2.14
Projected average evolution of the US Government yield
curve in a non-normal example
113
2.15
Projected distribution of yields in a non-normal example:
(a) US Gov 0–1Y; (b) US Gov 7–10Y
113
2.16
Distribution of returns in a non-normal example:
(a) US Gov 0–1Y; (b) US Gov 7–10Y
115
3.1
Asset value and migration (probabilities not according to scale)
130
3.2
Impact of asset correlation on portfolio risk (hypothetical
portfolio with 100 issuers rated AAA–A, conﬁdence level 99.95%).
142
3.3
Comparison of portfolios by rating and by industry
144
3.4
Simulation results for Portfolio I
146
3.5
Comparison of simulation results for Portfolios I and II
152
x

--- Página 13 ---
3.6
Lorenz curves for Portfolios I and II
153
3.7
Sensitivity analysis for Portfolio I
155
7.1
Marginal costs and beneﬁts for banks of posting collateral
with the central bank
288
7.2
One-week moving average spread between non-EEA and EEA
issuers in 2005
293
7.3
Spread between the three-month EURIBOR and three-month
EUREPO rates since the introduction of the EUREPO in
March 2002 – until end 2007
294
7.4
Evolution of MRO weighted average, 1 Week repo, and
1 Week unsecured interbank rates in 2007
298
7.5
Evolution of LTRO weighted average, 3M repo, and 3M unsecured
interbank rates in 2007
298
8.1
Risks involved in central bank repurchase transactions
305
8.2
Basic determinants of haircut calculations
319
8.3
Holding period
320
8.4
Relationship between position size and liquidation value
324
8.5
Yield-curve differentials
328
8.6
Value-at-Risk due to credit risk for a single exposure
334
10.1
Important types of concentrations in the Eurosystem
collateral framework
369
10.2
Lorenz curve for counterparties with respect to amount
of collateral submitted
370
10.3
Lorenz curve for collateral issuers with respect to amount
of collateral submitted
372
10.4
Herﬁndahl–Hirschmann Indices (HHI) of individual
counterparties with respect to their collateral submitted
375
10.5
Variance reduction factors, for varying values of ^Ł and
asset correlations
386
10.6
The effect on Expected Shortfall of changed liquidation
time assumptions. Source: ECB’s own calculations
390
10.7
The effect on Expected Shortfall of changed credit quality
assumptions. Source: ECB’s own calculations
391
10.8
The effect on Expected Shortfall of changed assumptions
on issuer-counterparty correlations
391
11.1
Liquidity shocks and associated marginal costs to a speciﬁc bank
424
13.1
Taxonomy of operational risk
470
13.2
Drivers of the risk impact-grading scale of the ECB
474
13.3
Operational risk tolerance: illustrative principles
475
xi
List of figures

--- Página 14 ---
Tables
1.1
Foreign reserves (and domestic ﬁnancial asset of G3 central
banks) in December 2007
page 13
1.2
Different reasons for holding foreign exchange reserves –
importance attributed by reserve managers according to
a JPMorgan survey
15
1.3
Risk quantiﬁcation and economic capital, in billions of EUR,
as at end 2005
16
1.4
Modiﬁed duration of ﬁxed-income market portfolios
19
1.5
Asset classes used by central banks in their foreign
reserves management
21
1.6
Asset classes currently allowed or planned to be allowed
according to a JPMorgan survey
22
1.7
Derivatives currently allowed or planned to be allowed
according to a JPMorgan survey
23
1.8
Trading styles of central bank reserves managers according
to a JPMorgan survey
28
2.1
Example of the eligible investment universe for a USD portfolio
100
2.2
Classiﬁcation scheme
102
2.3
Transition matrices
102
2.4
Intercepts of the Nelson–Siegel state equation
102
2.5
Autoregressive coefﬁcients of the Nelson–Siegel state equation
103
2.6
Returns in a normal example: average and standard deviation
108
2.7
Optimal portfolio composition in a normal example
110
2.8
Summary information for the optimal portfolio in a normal example 110
2.9
Returns in a non-normal example: average and standard deviation
114
2.10
Optimal portfolio composition in a non-normal example
116
2.11
Summary information for the optimal portfolio in
a non-normal example
116
3.1
Migration probabilities and standard normal boundaries for bond
with initial rating A
129
xii

--- Página 15 ---
3.2
Risk-weighting of Standardized Approach under Basel II
135
3.3
Original and augmented migration probabilities for bond
with initial rating A
140
3.4
Common migration matrix (one-year migration probabilities)
146
3.5
Parameters for Nelson–Siegel curves
146
3.6
Simulation results for Portfolio I
147
3.7
Decomposition of simulation results into default and migration
148
3.8
Simulation results for Portfolio II, including decomposition
151
3.9
Sensitivity analysis for Portfolio I
154
4.1
Rating scales, numerical equivalents of ratings and correction
factors for counterparty limits
174
7.1
Shares of different types of collateral received by 113 institutions
responding to the 2006 ISDA margin survey
279
7.2
Comparison of the key recommendations of ISDA Guideline
for Collateral Practitioners with the Eurosystem collateralization
framework
281
7.3
Bid–ask spreads as an indicator of liquidity for selected
assets (2005 data)
283
7.4
Example of parameters underlying a cost–beneﬁt analysis
of collateral eligibility
287
7.5
Social welfare under different sets of eligible collateral and
reﬁnancing needs of the banking system
288
7.6
Information on the set of bonds used for the analysis
292
7.7
Spreads containing information on the GC and Eurosystem
collateral eligibility premia – before and during the 2007 turmoil
299
8.1
Summary of ECAF by credit assessment source in the context
of the Single List
314
8.2
Liquidity score card
331
8.3
Eurosystem liquidity categories for marketable assets
332
8.4
Eurosystem levels of valuation haircuts applied to eligible
marketable assets in relation to ﬁxed coupon and zero-coupon
instruments
333
8.5
The distribution of bond values of an A rated bond
335
8.6
‘Through-the-cycle’ credit migration matrix
336
8.7
‘Point-in-time’ credit migration matrix
336
8.8
99 per cent credit risk haircut for a ﬁve-year ﬁxed coupon bond
337
9.1
Differentiation of collateral policy depending on type of operation
343
9.2
Comparison of sizes of credit operations (averages for 2006,
in EUR billions)
346
xiii
List of tables

--- Página 16 ---
9.3
Comparison of eligibility criteria
350
9.4
Comparison of haircuts applied to government bonds
355
9.5
Comparison of haircuts of assets with a residual maturity
of ﬁve years
355
10.1
Default probabilities for different rating grades
363
10.2
Liquidation time assumptions used for the different asset classes
364
10.3
Comparison of various variance reduction techniques
with 0.24 asset correlation
387
10.4
Comparison of various variance reduction techniques
with 0.5 asset correlation
387
10.5
Breakdown of residual risks in the base case scenario
389
10.6
Composition of submitted collateral over time and composition
of residual ﬁnancial risks over time
392
11.1
FCM typology and illustration from August–December 2007
400
xiv
List of tables

--- Página 17 ---
Boxes
2.1
The VAR macro model
page 78
2.2
Transformation of yields and relative slope
83
3.1
Credit spreads and the limitations of diversiﬁcation
121
4.1
Modiﬁed duration versus VaR
163
4.2
Calculation of rate reasonability tolerance bands at the ECB
184
4.3
ECB Risk Management – Regular reports
193
4.4
The systems used by the ECB Risk Management Division (RMA)
201
8.1
Historical background in the creation of in-house credit
assessment systems in four Eurosystem central banks
310
8.2
In-house credit assessments by the Bank of Japan
311
8.3
The Qualiﬁed Loan Review programme of the Federal Reserve
312
9.1
Survey of credit and market risk mitigation in a collateral
management in central banks
356
xv

--- Página 19 ---
Foreword
The reader familiar with central bank parlance will have certainly noticed
that our vocabulary is full of references to risks. It seems that no speech of
ours can avoid raising awareness of risks to price stability or evade the
subject of risks to the smooth functioning of the ﬁnancial system. Indeed,
one way to describe our core responsibility is to say that the central bank
acts as a risk manager for the economy using monetary policy to hedge
against inﬂationary risks. However, we tend to be less willing to share
information on the ways we manage ﬁnancial risks in our own institutions.
It is thus not surprising that a book that sheds light on risk management in
the world of central banks and other public investors in a systematic and
comprehensive way has not been published so far. And I am very happy that
the initiative to prepare such a book has been taken by staff of the European
Central Bank.
Central banks’ own appetite for ﬁnancial risks is not always easy to
understand. Our institutions have historically been conservative investors,
placing their foreign reserves mostly in government securities and taking
very little, if any, credit risk. Progressively, the accumulation of reserves in
some countries, either as a result of their abundant natural resources or of
foreign exchange policies, has led their central banks to expand their
investment universe and, with it, the ﬁnancial risks they face. More recently,
the landscape of public investors has been enriched by sovereign wealth
funds, state-backed investors from emerging economies that made their
presence more than noticeable in international capital markets and have
occasionally created controversy with their investment strategies.
While managing investment portfolios is one area where risk manage-
ment expertise is needed, central banks have other core concerns. They are
in charge of monetary policy in their jurisdiction. They are also expected to
intervene when the stability of the ﬁnancial system is at stake. In order to
steer the system out of a crisis, they are prepared, if needed, to take those
xvii

--- Página 20 ---
risks which other market participants rush to shed. They are prepared to
provide additional liquidity to the system as a whole or lend to speciﬁc
banks on special conditions. Such behaviour, which may seem to put risk
management considerations on hold, at least temporarily, further compli-
cates the effort of an outsider to understand the role of risk management in
the central bank.
Being responsible for risk management in a public institution, like a
central bank, does not simply rely on technical risk management expertise.
Although the requirement for a high degree of ﬂuency in quantitative
techniques is not less important than in private ﬁnancial institutions, it
must be combined with a deep understanding of the role of the public
institution and its core functions. In our institutions, ﬁnancial decisions are
not taken based only on risk and return considerations but also take into
account broader social welfare aspects.
Central bank risk managers provide decision makers with assessments of
ﬁnancial risks in the whole range of central banks’ operations, whether these
are linked to policy objectives or are related to the management of
investment portfolios. They should be able to deliver such assessments not
only under normal market conditions but, even more so, under conditions
of market stress. Decision makers also seek their advice to understand and
draw the right conclusions from the use of the latest instruments of risk
transfer in the markets and the implementation of risk management
strategies by ﬁnancial institutions in our jurisdictions.
The European Central Bank placed, from the very beginning, particular
attention to risk management. As a new member of the central bank
community, it had the ambition of fulﬁlling the highest governance standards
in organizing its risk management function within the institution and
applying state-of-the-art tools. No less than that would be expected from a
new central bank that would determine monetary policy and oversee
ﬁnancial stability for an ever-increasing number of European citizens, playing
the lead role in a system of cooperating central banks.
Central banks and other public investors have been entrusted with the
management of public funds and are expected to do so in a transparent way
that is well understood by the public. This book systematically explains how
central banks have addressed ﬁnancial risks in their operations. It discusses
issues of principle but also provides concrete practical information. It
explains how risk management techniques, developed in the private sector,
apply to central banks and where idiosyncrasies of our institutions merit
special approaches. The blend of analysis and information provided in the
xviii
Foreword

--- Página 21 ---
next pages makes me conﬁdent that this book will ﬁnd an eager readership
among both risk managers and central bankers.
Jose´ Manuel Gonza´lez-Pa´ramo
Member of the Executive Board of
the European Central Bank
xix
Foreword

--- Página 22 ---
Introduction
Ulrich Bindseil, Fernando Gonza´lez and Evangelos Tabakis
Domestic and foreign ﬁnancial assets of central banks and public wealth funds
worldwide are estimated to have reached in 2007 more than USD 12 trillion,
which is more than 15 per cent of world GDP, and more than 10 per cent of the
global market capitalization of equity and ﬁxed-income securities markets.
Reﬂecting unprecedented growth of their ﬁnancial assets, and the revolution of
risk management techniques and best practices during the last ﬁfteen years, the
investment and risk management policies and procedures of central banks and
other public investors have undergone a profound transformation. The pur-
pose of this book is to provide a comprehensive and structured overview of
issues and techniques in the area of public institutions’ risk management. On
each of the main areas of risk management, the book aims at ﬁrst presenting
the general problems as they also would occur in private ﬁnancial institutions,
then to discuss how these materialize in the special case of public institutions,
and ﬁnally to illustrate this general discussion by describing the European
Central Bank’s (ECB) speciﬁc approach. Due consideration is given to the
speciﬁcities of public institutions in general and central banks in particular. On
the one side, their public character relates to certain policy tasks, which will also
impact on their investment policies, in particular with regard to assets which
are directly considered policy assets (e.g. monetary policy assets, foreign
reserves to stand ready for intervention purposes). Secondly, the public
character of these institutions has certain implications regardless of policy
tasks, such as particular duties of transparency and accountability, less
ﬂexibility in terms of human resource policies and contracting, being outside
the radar of regulators, etc. These characteristics will also inﬂuence optimal
investment policies and risk management techniques of public institution.
The book targets portfolio managers, risk managers, monetary policy
implementation experts of central banks and public wealth funds, and staff in
supranational ﬁnancial institutions working on similar issues. Moreover, staff
from the ﬁnancial industry who provide services to central banks would also
have an interest in this book. Similarly, treasury and liquidity managers of
banks will ﬁnd the risk management perspective of central banks’ liquidity
xx

--- Página 23 ---
providing operations useful in understanding central bank policies. Around a
half of the chapters also provide methodological discussions which are not
really speciﬁc to central banks or other public investors, but which are equally
relevant for any other institutional investors. Finally, students in both ﬁnance
and central banking will ﬁnd the book important as bridging theory and
practice and as providing insights in a key area of central banking other than
monetary policy on which very little has traditionally been made public.
The authors of this book all work or worked in the ECB’s Risk Mana-
gement Division (except two, who work in the ECB’s Directorate General
Market Operations), and the topics covered reﬂect the area of expertise of
the respective authors. Thus, the book obviously reﬂects the experience of
the ECB and the speciﬁc challenges it has had to address. Nevertheless, the
book aims at working out the generic speciﬁcities and issues relating to all
public institutions’ risk management functions.
There are two types of books with which the present one can be com-
pared. First, there are a number of books on central bank investment policies
and risk management, like Bernadell et al. (2004), Danmarks Nationalbank
(2004), Pringle and Carver (2007, but also previous editions), Johnson-
Calari and Rietveld (2007) or Bakker and van Herpt (2007). These books
however do not aim at being comprehensive and conceptually structured,
nor do they go really into depth. In contrast, the present book is intended
to be a comprehensive reference book, structured along the main areas of
central bank investment and risk management, reviewing systematically the
existing literature, going into depth, and using state-of-the art methods.
Second, there are at least two recent books by teams from the institutional
investor/asset allocation area of major investment banks, namely Litterman
(2003) and Dynkin et al. (2006). These books are similar in authorship as
they are produced by a team of experts from one institution and cover
topics in the broader area of ﬁnancial management, including risk mana-
gement. However the two books have a different perspective, namely that of
investment management, and do not cover the risk control and risk miti-
gation aspects of risk management.
Structure of the book: Investment vs. policy operations;
different risk types
The book is structured into three main parts: the ﬁrst deals with the risk
management for investment operations of public institutions. Investment
xxi
Introduction

--- Página 24 ---
operations are deﬁned broadly as ﬁnancial operations of public institutions
which are not or only limitedly constrained by the policy mandates of the
public institution. Still, the public character of the institution should
inﬂuence its investment and risk management policies, relative to a non-
public institutional investor. The second part deals with policy operations
of central banks, whereby the focus is on collateralized lending operations,
as such monetary policy operations are standard today for central banks
to control short-term interest rates. Most issues arising in this context are,
however, also relevant for collateralized lending programmes that a ﬁnan-
cial institution would establish, and techniques discussed are therefore
relevant for the ﬁnancial industry. Finally, a short third part deals with
organizational issues and operational risk management in public ﬁnancial
institutions.
While the segregation of risk management approaches into those relating
to investment and those relating to policy operations may seem straight-
forward for central bankers, its compatibility with the idea of integrated
ﬁnancial risk management may be questioned. Why wouldn’t all risks be
mapped eventually into one risk framework? It appears a standard problem
of any bank that risks from different business lines seem at a ﬁrst look
difﬁcult to aggregate, but that these problems need to be overcome because
segregated risk management is inferior. In contradiction to this, in many
central banks, the organizational units for risk management are segregated:
one would be responsible for investment operations, and the other for
policy operations. In the case of the ECB, both risk management functions
are assigned to one division, not to aggregate risk across the two ‘business
lines’, but for achieving intellectual economies of scale and scope. A
probably valid explanation in the case of the ECB for not integrating the two
business lines in terms of risk management is that monetary policy oper-
ations are in the books of the national central banks (NCBs) of the Euro-
system, and not in the books of the ECB. Therefore, also, losses would arise
with NCBs. The responsibility of the ECB’s risk management for deﬁning
the risk framework for policy operations is based on the fact that losses
relating to monetary policy operations are shared across NCBs. In contrast,
the ECB’s investment operations are genuinely in the books of the ECB, and
directly affect its P&L. Therefore, integrating the two types of operations
would mean ignoring that the associated P&Ls are not for the same insti-
tutions, and thus should be part of different risk budgets, etc. While the
ECB has thus a valid excuse for keeping the two issues separated, which
affects the structure of the current book, other central banks should
xxii
Introduction

--- Página 25 ---
probably not follow this avenue, as all types of operations end up affecting
their P&L.
The structure of this book from the risk type perspective may appear less
clear than for a typical risk management textbook. While Chapter 3 is
purely on the credit risk side, Chapters 2, 5 and 6 are about market risk
management. Chapters 7–10 are mainly on the credit risk side; however,
potential losses in reverse repo operations are also driven by liquidity and
market risk when it comes to liquidating collateral in the case of a coun-
terparty default. Chapter 4 addresses risk control tasks aiming at both credit
and market risk. Operational risk management as discussed in Chapter 13 is
a rather different animal, but as operational risk contributes in Basel II
a third component to capital requirements, it is thought that a book on
public institutions’ risk management would be incomplete if not also dis-
cussing, at least in one chapter, issues relating to operational risk in public
institutions. In the ECB, the more limited interaction between operational
and ﬁnancial risk management is reﬂected by having separate entities being
responsible for each.
Part I: Investment operations
Part I of the book, on investment operations, begins with a chapter (Central
banks and other public institutions as ﬁnancial investors) discussing the
‘nature’ of central banks and other public institutions as investors. The
chapter aims at providing tentative answers to questions like: What are the
special characteristics of such investors implied by their policy mandates?
What are the basic risk–return properties of their balance sheets? What
capital do they need and what are their long-run ﬁnancial perspectives? In
which sense should they be ‘active’ investors and how diversiﬁed should
they be? Are they unique in terms of aversion against reputation risk? The
chapter suggests that while on one side, many ﬁnancial industry risk
management techniques (like VaR, limit setting, reporting, performance
attribution) are directly applicable to public institutions, the foundations
of integrated risk management (e.g. risk budgeting, economic capital cal-
culation, desired credit rating) are very special for public institutions, and in
fact are more difﬁcult to derive than in the case of a private ﬁnancial
institution.
Chapter 2 (Strategic asset allocation for central banks and public
investors) contains a general introduction to strategic asset allocation and a
xxiii
Introduction

--- Página 26 ---
review of the key issues relating to it. It also provides a review of central
bank practice in this area (also on the basis of available surveys), and a
detailed technical presentation of the ECB’s approach to strategic asset
allocation. The importance of strategic asset allocation in public institutions
can hardly be overestimated, since it typically drives more than 90 per cent
of the risks and returns of public institution’s investments. This also reﬂects
the need for transparency of public investments, which can be fulﬁlled in
principle by a strategic asset allocation approach, but less by ‘active man-
agement’ investment strategies.
Chapter 3 discusses Credit risk modelling for public institutions’
investment portfolios. Portfolio credit risk modelling in general has
emerged in practice only over the least ten years, and in public institutions
only very recently. Its relevance for central banks, for example, is on the one
hand obvious in view of the size of the portfolios in questions, and their
increasing share of non-government bonds. On the other hand, public
investors tend to hold credit portfolios of very high average credit quality,
still concentrated in a limited number of issuers, which poses speciﬁc
challenges for estimating sensible credit risk measures.
Chapter 4 on Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting turns
to the core regular risk control tasks that any institutional ﬁnancial investor
should undertake. There is typically little systematic literature on these
topics which are so relevant and also often challenging in practice.
Chapter 5 on Performance measurement again deals in more depth with
one core risk control subject of interest to all institutional investors. While
in principle being a very practical issue, it often raises numerous technical
implementation issues. Chapter 6, on Performance attribution comple-
ments Chapter 5. While performance attribution is a topic which can ﬁll a
book in its own right, this chapter includes a discussion of the most fun-
damental principles and considerations when applying performance attri-
bution in the typical central bank setting. In addition, the ﬁxed-income
attribution framework currently applied by the European Central Bank is
introduced.
Part II: Policy operations
Chapters 7 to 11 cover central bank policy operations conducted as reverse
repo operations. Chapter 7 on Risk management and market impact of
central bank credit reviews the role and effects of the collateral framework
xxiv
Introduction

--- Página 27 ---
which central banks, for example, use in conducting temporary monetary
policy operations. First, the chapter explains the design of such a framework
from the perspective of risk mitigation. It is argued that by means of
appropriate risk mitigation measures, the residual risk on any potentially
eligible asset can be equalized and brought down to the level consistent with
the risk tolerance of the central bank. Once this result has been achieved,
eligibility decisions should be based on an economic cost–beneﬁt analysis.
The chapter looks at the effects of the collateral framework on ﬁnancial
markets, and in particular on spreads between eligible and ineligible assets.
Chapter 8 goes in more depth with regard to methodological issues of
risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessments in central bank
policy operations. It motivates in more detail the different risk mitigation
measures, and how they are applied in the Eurosystem. In particular,
valuation issues and haircut setting are explained. To ensure that accepted
collateral fulﬁls sufﬁcient credit quality standards, central banks tend to rely
on external or internal credit quality assessments. While many central banks
today rely exclusively on ratings by rating agencies, others still rely on
internal credit quality assessment systems.
Chapter 9 provides a comparison of risk mitigation measures and
credit risk assessment in central bank policy operations across in par-
ticular three major central banks, namely the Federal Reserve, the Bank of
Japan and the Eurosystem.
Chapter 10 (Risk measurement for a repo portfolio) presents a state-of-
the art approach to estimating tail risk measures for a portfolio of collate-
ralized lending operations, as it is relevant for any investor with a large repo
portfolio, and as it has been implemented for the ﬁrst time by a central bank
in 2006 by the ECB.
Chapter 11 turns to central bank ﬁnancial crisis management from
a risk management perspective. Financial crisis management is a key
central bank policy task and unsurprisingly ﬁnancial transactions in such an
environment will imply particular risk taking, which needs to be well jus-
tiﬁed and well controlled. The second half of 2007 provided multiple
illustrations for this chapter.
Part III: Organizational issues and operational risk
Part three of the book consists of Chapters 12 and 13. Chapter 12 is on
Organizational issues in the risk management function of central banks,
xxv
Introduction

--- Página 28 ---
and covers organizational issues of relevance for any institutional investor,
such as segregation of duties; Chinese walls; policy vs. investment opera-
tions, optimal boundaries of responsibilities vis-a`-vis other business areas
etc. The ﬁnal Chapter 13 treats Operational risk management in central
banks and presents in some detail the ECB’s approach to this.
xxvi
Introduction

--- Página 29 ---
Part I
Investment operations

--- Página 31 ---
1
Central banks and other public
institutions as ﬁnancial investors
Ulrich Bindseil
1. Introduction
Domestic and foreign ﬁnancial assets of all central banks and public wealth
funds worldwide are estimated to have reached in 2007 more than USD
12 billion. Public investors, hence, are important players in global ﬁnancial
markets, and their investment decisions will both matter substantially for
their (and hence for the governments’) income and for relative ﬁnancial
asset prices. If public institutional investors face such large-scale investment
issues, some normative theory of their investment behaviour is obviously
of interest. How far would such a theory deviate from a normative theory of
investment for typical private large-scale institutional investors, such as
pension funds, endowment funds, insurance companies, or mutual funds?
Can we rationalize with such a theory what we observe today as central
bank investment behaviour? Or would we end concluding like Summers
(2007), who compares central bank investment performance with the
typical investment performance of pension and endowment funds, that
central banks waste considerable public money with an overly restrictive
investment approach?
In practice, central bank risk management is extensively using, as it
should, risk management methodologies and tools developed and applied
by the private ﬁnancial industry. Those tools will be described in more
detail in the following chapters of the book. While public institutions are in
this respect not fundamentally different from other institutional investors,
important speciﬁcities remain, due to public institutions’ policy mandate,
organizational structure or ﬁnancial asset types held. This is what justiﬁes
discussing all these tasks in detail in this book on central bank and other
public institutions’ risk management, instead of simply referring to general
risk management literature. The present chapter focuses more on the main
idiosyncratic features of public institutions in the area of investment and
3

--- Página 32 ---
risk management, which do not relate so much to the set of risk manage-
ment tools to be applied, but more on how to integrate them into one
consistent framework reﬂecting the overall constraints and preferences of,
for example, central banks, and how to correspondingly set the basic key
parameters of the public institution’s risk management and investment
frameworks.
The rest of this chapter is organized as follows: Section 2 reviews in more
detail the speciﬁcities of public investors in general, which are likely to be
relevant for their optimal risk management and investment policies. Section 3
turns to the speciﬁc case of central banks, being by far the largest type of
public investors. It explains how the different central bank policy tasks on
the one side have made such large investors out of central banks, and on the
other side may constrain the central bank in its investment decisions.
Sections 4 and 5 look each at one speciﬁc key question faced by public
investors: ﬁrst, how much should public investors diversify their assets, and
second, how actively should they manage them. Sections 6 and 7 are
devoted again more speciﬁcally to central banks, namely by looking more
closely at what non-alienable risk factors are present in central bank balance
sheets, and at the role of central bank capital, respectively. Section 6, as
Section 3, reviews one by one the key central bank policy tasks, but in this
case to analyse their role as major non-alienable risk factors for integrated
central bank risk management. Also on the basis of Sections 6 and 7, Section 8
turns to integrated ﬁnancial risk management of public institutions, which is
as much the holy grail of risk management for them as it is for private
ﬁnancial institutions. Section 9 draws conclusions.
2. Public institutions’ speciﬁcities as investors
Public institutions are speciﬁc as ﬁnancial investors as they operate under
unique policy mandates and are subject to constraints which do not exist for
private institutional investors. These speciﬁcities will have implication for
optimal investment behaviour. The following speciﬁcities 1) to 5) are
relevant for all public investors, while 6) to 10) only affect central banks.
1) Public institutions may appear to be, relative to some private
institutional investors (like an insurance, or an endowment fund), subject
to some speciﬁc constraints: (i) Less organizational ﬂexibility, including
more complex and therefore more costly decision-making procedures. This
may argue against ‘decision-intensive’ investment styles; (ii) Decision
4
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 33 ---
makers less specialized on investment. For instance central bank board
members are often macroeconomists or lawyers, and come more rarely
from the investment or risk management side; (iii) Higher accountability
and transparency requirements, possibly arguing against investment
approaches that are by nature less transparent, such as active portfolio
management; (iv) Less leeway in the selection and compensation of port-
folio managers due to rules governing the employment of public servants.
This may argue against giving leeway to public investors’ portfolio man-
agers, as compared to less constrained institutional investors. There are
certainly good reasons for these organizational speciﬁcities of public insti-
tutions. They could in general imply, everything else being equal, a certain
competitive disadvantage of central banks in active portfolio management
or in diversiﬁcation into less standard asset classes, relative to private
players.
2) Public institutions being part of the consolidated state sector. It
could be argued that when investing into domestic ﬁnancial assets, public
institutions should have a preference for Government securities as they are
part of the state sector, and as the state sector should not lengthen
unnecessarily its consolidated balance sheet (i.e. the consolidated state
balance sheet should be ‘lean’). A lean state sector may be defended on the
basis of the general argument that the state should concentrate on its core
business, and avoid anything else, since it is likely to be uncompetitive
relative to private players (which are ‘ﬁtter’ as they survive free market
competition). The Fed may be viewed as a central bank following the ‘lean
consolidated state sector’ approach most closely; as more than 90 per cent of
its assets are domestic Government bonds held outright (see Federal Reserve
Bank of New York 2007, 11). Thus, if one consolidates the US federal
Government and the Federal Reserve System, a large part of the Fed balance
sheet can be netted off.
3) Public institutions have a very special owner: the Government, and
therefore, indirectly, the people (or ‘the taxpayer’). When discussing how
a speciﬁc institutional investor should invest, it is natural to ﬁrst look at
who ‘owns’ the institutional investor or, more generally, who owns the
returns on the assets that are managed. One tends to describe (or to explain)
the preferences of investors with (i) an investment horizon, (ii) relative
risk–return preferences, expressed in some functional form, (iii) possibly
some non-alienable assets or liabilities (for individuals, this would for
instance be human capital), which exhibit speciﬁc correlations with ﬁnan-
cial assets, and thereby determine the optimal asset allocation. If one would
5
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 34 ---
view the central bank in its role as investor as a pure agent of the Gov-
ernment or of the people, one needs to look in more detail to these three
characteristics of its owner. The opposite approach is to view a public
institution as a subject on its own, and to see payments to its owners (to
which it is obliged through its statutes) as ‘lost’ money from its perspective.
Under this approach, the three dimensions (i)–(iii) of preferences above
need to be derived taking directly the perspective of the public institution.
4) Public institutions do not have the task to maximize their income.
Instead, for instance the ECB has, beyond its primary task to conduct
monetary policy, the aim to contribute to an efﬁcient allocation of resources,
i.e. it should have social welfare in mind. According to article 2 of the ESCB/
ECB Statute: ‘The ESCB shall act in accordance with the principle of an
open market economy with free competition, favouring an efﬁcient allocation
of resources. . .’. The question thus arises in how far certain investment
approaches, such as e.g. active portfolio management, are socially efﬁcient.
As Hirshleifer (1971) had demonstrated, there is no general insurance that
private and social returns are equal in the case of information producing
activities. Especially in the case of what he calls ‘foreknowledge’, it seems
likely that private returns of information producing activities tend to exceed
social returns, such that at the margin, investment into such information
would tend to be detrimental to social welfare (i.e. to an efﬁcient allocation
of resources). In his words:
The key factor. . .is the distributive signiﬁcance of foreknowledge. When private
information fails to lead to improved productive alignments (as must necessarily be
the case in a world of pure exchange. . .), it is evident that the individual’s source of
gain can only be at the expense of his fellows. But even where information is
disseminated and does lead to improved productive commitments, the distributive
transfer gain will surely be far greater than the relatively minor productive gain the
individual might reap from the redirection of his own real investment commit-
ments. (Hirshleifer 1971, 567)
One could thus argue that it is questionable that an institution, which
according to its statute should care about social welfare, engages into active
portfolio management. On the other side, it could be felt that this argument
applies to a lesser extent to foreign reserves, since a central bank should
probably always care more about the welfare of its own country than about
the one of others, such that egoistic proﬁt maximization in the case of
foreign reserves would be legitimate. Also beyond the issue of active mana-
gement, the question is to be raised whether what is rational from the
6
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 35 ---
perspective of a private, selﬁsh investor would be economically (or
‘socially’) efﬁcient if applied by the central bank. Unless one has concrete
indications of the contrary, public institutions should probably assume that
this is the case, i.e. that by adopting state-of-the-art investment and risk
management techniques from the ﬁnancial industry; they also contribute to
the social efﬁciency of their investments.
5) Public institutions and reputation risk. Reputation risk may be
deﬁned as risks arising from negative public opinion for the P&L of an
institution or more generally for the ability to conduct relevant tasks. This
risk may be related to the risks of litigation and loss of independence. It is
also called sometimes ‘headline’ risk as events damaging the reputation of a
public institution are typically taken up by the media. Reputation risk is
often linked to ﬁnancial losses (i.e. in case of losses due to the failure of a
counterparty), but not necessarily. For instance, it may be deemed a
‘scandal’ in itself that a central bank invests into some issuer, be it public or
private, which is judged not to adhere to ethical standards. Or it could be
considered that the central bank should not invest into some ‘speculative’
derivatives, although these derivatives are in fact used for hedging, what the
press, the government or the public however may not understand. All
investors may be subject to reputation risk, but clearly to a varying degree.
Central banks’ rather-developed sensitivity for reputation risk may stem
from the following three factors:
(i)
Their need for credibility for achieving their policy tasks, such as
maintaining price stability. Credibility is not supported by being
perceived as unethical or amateurish.
(ii) Central banks tend to ‘preach’ to the rest of the world what is right and
wrong. For instance, they often criticize the spending behaviour and lack
of reform policies of Governments. Or, as banking supervisors, they
impose high governance standards on banks, and search for weaknesses
of banks to intervene against them. Again, such roles do not appear
compatible with own weaknesses, which again is a credibility issue.
(iii) Central banks worry about preserving their independence. Independ-
ence is a privileged status, and it is obviously endangered if the central
bank shows weaknesses which could help the adversaries of central
bank independence (and those which were criticized or lectured by it)
to argue that ‘these guys need to be controlled more closely by
democratically elected bodies’.
A classical example for central bank headline risk is the attention the small
exposure of Banca d’Italia to LTCM got in 1998, including a need for the
7
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 36 ---
Governor to justify the Bank in the Italian Parliament. Reputation risk may
depend ﬁrst of all on whether a task is implied by the statutes of a public
investor. If for instance holding foreign reserves is a duty of a central bank,
then associated ﬁnancial risks should imply little reputation risk. The more
remote an activity is to the core tasks assigned to the public investor, the
higher the danger of getting questions like: ‘How could you lose public
money in this activity and why did you at all undertake it as you have not
been asked to do so?’ If taking market or credit risk for the sake of increasing
income is not an explicit mandate of a public institution, then market or
credit risk will have a natural correlation to reputation risk.
Reputation risk is obviously closely linked to transparency, and maybe
transparency is the best way to reduce reputation risk. What has been made
public and explained truthfully to the public can less be reproached to the
central bank in case of non-favourable outcomes – in particular if no
criticism was voiced ex ante. Central banks have gone a long way in terms of
transparency over the last decades, not only in terms of monetary policy
(e.g. transparency on their methodology and decision making), but also
in the area of central bank investments. For instance the ECB has published
in April 2006 an article in its Monthly bulletin revealing a series of key
parameters of its investment approach (ECB 2006a, 75–86). Principles of
central bank transparency in foreign reserves management are discussed in
section 2 of IMF (2004).
6) Central banks are normally equipped with large implicit economic
capital through their franchise to issue banknotes. This could be seen to
imply that they can take considerable risks in their investments, and harvest
the associated higher expected returns. At least for a majority of central
banks, the implicit capital is indeed considerable, which is discussed in more
detail in Section 7. Still, for some other central banks, ﬁnancial buffers may
be less extensive. For instance, central banks which are asked to purchase
substantial amounts of foreign reserves to avoid revaluation of their currency
may be in a potentially loss-making situation, in particular if, in addition:
(i) the demand for banknotes in the country is relatively limited; (ii) domestic
interest rates are higher than foreign rates; (iii) their own currency is under
revaluation pressure, which would imply accounting losses.
7) Central bank independence (relevant mainly for domestic ﬁnancial
assets). The need for central bank independence may be viewed to be
relevant in this context as implying that the central bank should stay out
from investing into securities or other assets issued by its own countries’
Government. In particular World War I taught a lesson in this respect to
8
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 37 ---
e.g. the US, the UK, and more than to anyone else, to Germany. Under
Government pressure, the central banks purchased during the war massive
amounts of Government paper and kept interest rates artiﬁcially low. It has
been an established doctrine for a long time that the excessive purchase of
Government paper by the central bank is a sign of, or leads to, a lack of
central bank independence. For instance article 21.1 of the ECB/ESCB
Statutes reﬂects this doctrine by prohibiting the direct purchase of public
debt instruments by the ECB or by NCBs.
8) Central banks have insider information on the evolution of short-
term rates, at least in their own currency, and thus on the yield curve in
general. One may argue that insider information should not be used for
ethical or for other reasons, and that therefore certain types of investment
positions (in particular yield curve and duration positions in domestic
ﬁxed-income assets) should not be taken by central bank portfolio mana-
gers. As a possible alternative, ‘Chinese walls’ or other devices can be
established around active managers of domestic portfolios in the central
bank. For foreign exchange assets, the argument holds to a lesser extent.
9) Central banks may have special reasons to develop market intelligence,
since they need to implement monetary policy in an efﬁcient way, and need
to stand ready to operate as lender of last resort. Especially the latter requires
an in-depth knowledge of ﬁnancial markets and of all ﬁnancial instruments.
While some forms of market intelligence may be developed in the context of
basic risk-free debt instruments, a more advanced and broader understanding
of ﬁnancial markets may depend on diversifying into more exotic asset classes
(e.g. MBSs, ABSs, CDOs, equity, hedge funds) or on using derivatives (like
futures, swaps, options, or CDSs). Also active portfolio management may be
perceived as a way to understand best the logic of the marketplace, as it might
be argued that only with active management do portfolio managers have
strong incentives to understand all details of ﬁnancial markets. For instance the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand has stated this doctrine, motivating active
portfolio management openly (taken from the IMF 2005, statement 773 – see
also the statement by the Bank of Israel, IMF 2005, statement 663):
773. The Bank actively manages foreign reserves. It does so because it believes that
active management: generates positive returns (in excess of compensation for
risk and of active management overheads) and so reduce the costs of holding
reserves; and encourages the dealers to actively participate in a wider range of
instruments and markets than would otherwise be the case and so improves the
Bank’s market intelligence and contacts, knowledge of market practices, and foreign
exchange intervention and risk management skills. The skills and experience gained
9
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 38 ---
from reserves management have been of value to the Bank in the context of its other
roles too. For instance, foreign reserves dealers were able to provide valuable input
when the Bank, in the context of its ﬁnancial system oversight responsibilities, was
managing the sale of a derivatives portfolio of a failed ﬁnancial institution. It is not
possible to be precise about how much added-value is obtained from active
management but, in time of crises, extensive market knowledge, contacts and
experience become invaluable.
10) At least some central banks tend to be amongst the exceptionally
big investors. The most striking examples are the Asian central banks and in
particular China and Japan with reserves, mostly in USD, at or beyond
1 trillion USD. The status as big investor has two important consequences.
First, such central banks should probably go further than others in diver-
sifying their investment portfolio. In the CAPM (Capital Asset Pricing
Model), all investors should hold a widely diversiﬁed market portfolio, but
in reality, transactions and information costs of many kinds are making
such full diversiﬁcation inefﬁcient. Participation in a diversiﬁed fund can
reduce these costs, but will not eliminate them. The easiest way to model
these costs preventing full diversiﬁcation is to assume ﬁxed set-up costs per
asset type, which may be viewed as the costs for the front, back and middle
ofﬁce to understand the asset type sufﬁciently and to prepare for the inte-
gration and handling of associated transactions. These ﬁxed set-up costs will
be lower for some and higher for other asset types. Under such assumptions,
it is clear why smaller investors will end up being less diversiﬁed. Set-up costs
can be economized to some extent through outsourcing or through pur-
chasing investment vehicles like funds. Also, some important forms of diver-
siﬁcation, like e.g. into an equity indices, may require relatively low set-up
costs, and hesitations of central banks (large or small) with their regard may
be due to other reasons. Second, large central banks with a substantial weight
in some markets (e.g. US Treasuries) may inﬂuence relative prices in these
markets, in particular when doing large transactions. This may potentially
worsen their returns, and implies the need to smooth transactions over time,
and, again, to diversify. Also it increases liquidity risks, i.e. the risks that the
quick liquidation of relevant positions is only possible at a discount.
3. How policy tasks have made central banks large-scale investors
The starting point in analysing the speciﬁcities of central banks as investors
is clearly the question why central banks are at all facing ‘investment’ issues.
10
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 39 ---
Return-oriented investment is clearly not amongst the standard policy tasks
of central banks. To be a bit more speciﬁc on the core central bank tasks and
how they have made large-scale investors out of central banks, consider the
tasks speciﬁcally prescribed for the ECB, which are quite standard for
central banks with statutes deﬁned in the last decade or so. According to the
Treaty establishing the European Community (article 105.2), the basic tasks
of the ECB are: (i) the deﬁnition and implementation of monetary policy
for the euro area; (ii) the conduct of foreign exchange operations; (iii) the
holding and management of the ofﬁcial foreign reserves of the euro area
countries (portfolio management); (iv) the promotion of the smooth oper-
ation of payment systems. Further tasks according to the ECB/ESCB Sta-
tutes relevant in this context are: (v) banknotes – the ECB has the exclusive
right to authorize the issuance of banknotes within the euro area (article 16
of the ECB/ESCB Statute); (vi) ﬁnancial stability and supervision – the
Eurosystem contributes to the smooth conduct of policies pursued by the
authorities in charge related to the prudential supervision of credit insti-
tutions and the stability of the ﬁnancial system (see Article 25 of the ECB/
ESCB Statutes). Finally, article 2 (‘Objectives’) of the ECB/ESCB Statutes
also prescribes that: (vii) ‘The ESCB shall act in accordance with the
principle of an open market economy with free competition, favouring an
efﬁcient allocation of resources. The rest of this section explains how such
tasks made “investors” out of today’s central banks.’
3.1 Banknotes issuing and payment systems
As long as there is demand for banknotes, and the central bank has an
issuance monopoly, banknotes will constitute an important and unique
unremunerated liability in the balance sheets of central banks. As any other
liability, banknotes need to be counterbalanced by some assets. Unless there
are speciﬁc constraints on the asset composition derived from other policy
tasks, the existence of banknotes in itself thus creates the need for invest-
ment decisions by the central bank. Although academic and even central
bank visionaries have forecast the end of banknotes for a long time, the
trend growth of banknotes of the large currencies (in particular USD and
EUR) has been even above the nominal growth rate of the respective
economies. For example, at end June 2007, euro banknotes in circulation
stood at EUR 633 billion, more or less the same as USD banknotes. In the
past, there were examples of central bank payment systems creating unre-
munerated liabilities of the central bank of considerable size and of almost
11
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 40 ---
similar magnitude as banknotes (e.g. the Reichsbank in 1900, see table 2.2 in
Bindseil (2004, 52)). Today, however, payment systems tend to be so efﬁ-
cient as to create very little unremunerated central bank liabilities. In so far,
they have a negligible impact on central bank balance sheets.
3.2 Monetary policy implementation
In short, central bank monetary policy consists in setting short-term money
interest rates such that price stability is maintained over time. Short-term
interest rates are controlled by steering the scarcity of deposits of banks
with the central bank, as the short-term money interest rate is essentially
anchored in the interbank lease rate for such deposits. The supply of
deposits can be inﬂuenced by the central bank by injecting or absorbing
deposits, namely by purchasing or selling securities, or by lending or
absorbing funds through so-called ‘reverse operations’. The demand for
deposits can also be inﬂuenced by the central bank, notably by imposing
reserve requirements on banks. What matters in the present context is that
the steering of short-term rates eventually consists in manipulating the
scarcity of deposits ‘at the margin’, i.e. the lease price of deposits is set, as
any other price, by the marginal demand and supply. This means that the
central bank is constrained in its asset management decisions from the
perspective of monetary policy only marginally in the sense that the assets
that are used to steer the scarcity of deposits at the margin need to be
suitable to do so, while the choices regarding the entire rest of the assets remain
unaffected (for a survey of monetary policy implementation explaining the
impact on the asset side of the balance sheet, see e.g. Bindseil 2004, chapters 2
and 3). It is noteworthy that in the more distant past, there had been the
view that the entire asset composition of central banks (so not only the
one at the margin) does matter for its ability to control inﬂation: this was
the case under the famous real bills doctrine, according to which ‘real’ (in
contrast to ‘ﬁnancial’) trade bills would be good, i.e. non-inﬂationary assets
(see Bindseil 2004, 107 and the literature mentioned there). Recognizing
that monetary policy is implemented only ‘at the margin’, the central bank
can segregate a large part of its domestic ﬁnancial assets from the monetary
policy operations to consider them domestic ﬁnancial investment port-
folios. Monetary policy portfolios typically consist of short-term reverse
repo operations which the central bank conducts through tender procedures
in the market. Financial risks of those tend to be very limited: credit risk is
mitigated through collateralization (see Part II of the book), while market
12
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 41 ---
risks appear negligible in the sense that the operations tend to have short-
term maturity (mainly up to three months).
3.3 Foreign exchange policies and reserves
The tasks to implement foreign exchange rate policies and to hold foreign
reserves have over the last decade led to an unprecedented accumulation of
foreign reserves of which the likelihood of use in foreign exchange inter-
ventions to support the domestic currency is negligible. The growth in
reserves reﬂects essentially increased oil and other raw material revenues
that the relevant countries capitalized in foreign currency, and the trade
surpluses of Asian economies that the relevant countries did not want to be
reﬂected in an appreciation of their respective currencies. According to
JPMorgan, reserve accumulation would have reached a new record in 2007
with an annual increase of 26 per cent. Table 1.1 shows an overview of
ofﬁcial reserves ﬁgures as of December 2007.
Accordingly, global foreign reserves stood at end 2007 at USD 6.5 trillion,
of which around USD 4 trillion were owned by Asian central banks.
Table 1.1 Foreign reserves (and domestic ﬁnancial asset of G3 central banks) in December 2007
USD billion
Top ﬁve reserve holders:
 China
1,528
 Japan
954
 Russia
446
 Taiwan
270
 India
268
Euro Area
235
Total foreign reserves of central banks
6,459
Sovereign wealth funds
3,000
Total ofﬁcial reserves
9,500
Memo: Domestic ﬁnancial assets of three currency
areas (approximate)
US Fed (end 2006)
800
Eurosystem (euro area central banks, end 2007)
1,150
Bank of Japan (end 2007)
920
Grand total of ﬁnancial assets in this table
12,400
Sources: IMF; JPMorgan ‘New trends in reserve management – Central bank survey’,
February 2008; for domestic ﬁnancial assets: central bank websites.
13
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 42 ---
Sovereign wealth funds, which are typically split-ups of excess central bank
reserves, constituted around EUR 3 trillion. Deﬁning ‘excess reserves’ as
foreign reserves which would not be needed to cover all foreign debt coming
due within one year, Summers (2007) notes that excess reserves of 121
developing countries sum up to USD 2 trillion, or 19 per cent of their
combined GDP. China’s excess reserves would be 32 per cent of its GDP and
for instance for Malaysia this ﬁgure even stands at 49 per cent and at 125 per
cent for Libya. Excess reserves could be regarded as those reserves for which
central banks only face an investment problem, and have no policy constraint
(except, maybe, the foreign currency denomination). In fact, three cases of
central banks may have to be differentiated with regard to the origin and
implied policy constraints of foreign reserves. First, the case of a large area
being the ‘n þ 1’ country not caring so much about foreign exchange rates
and thus not needing foreign reserves. The US (and maybe to a lesser extent
the euro area) falls into this category, and the Fed will therefore hold very
little or no foreign reserves for policy reasons. In this case, still, the central
bank may hold foreign reserves for pure investment reasons. However, this
typically adds substantial market risk, without allowing to improve expected
returns, which would therefore rarely be done by such a central bank.
Second, central banks may want to hold foreign reserves as ammunition for
foreign reserve intervention in case of devaluation pressures on their own
currency in foreign exchange markets. This has obviously consequences on
the currency denomination of assets, and on required liquidity characte-
ristics of assets. Apart from the currency and liquidity implications of these
policy objectives, the central bank can however still make asset choices
affecting risk and return, i.e. some leeway for investment decisions remains.
Most Latin American countries typically fall under this category. Third, there
are central banks which would like to avoid appreciation of their currency,
and thereby purchase systematically over time foreign assets, such as many
Asian central banks have done it in an unprecedented way for several years.
Such reserve accumulation puts little constraint in terms of liquidity on the
foreign assets (as there is only a marginal likelihood of the need to sell the
reserves under time pressure), but can have, due to the amounts involved,
pervasive consequences for the overall length of and risks in the central bank
balance sheet. To take an example: the People’s Bank of China reached at end
2007 a level of foreign reserves amounting to USD 1.5 trillion. A 10 per cent
appreciation of the Yuan would thus mean losses to the central bank of USD
150 billion, which is much more than the capital of any central bank of the
world. These risks in themselves are however obviously not constraining
14
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 43 ---
investment, and thus central banks of this type face very important invest-
ment choices due to the mere size of their assets.1
Table 1.2 overviews how central banks perceive the relevance of different
motives to hold reserves as obtained by JPMorgan in a survey conducted in
2007.2
The existence of large unhedged foreign exchange reserves explains the
rather peculiar relative weights of different risk types in the case of central
banks. For large universal banks (like e.g. Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, or
Deutsche Bank), credit risk tends to clearly outweigh market risk. This may
be explained by the fact that market risk can be diversiﬁed away and be hedged
to a considerable extent, while credit risks eventually needs to be assumed to a
considerable extent by banks (even if some diversiﬁcation is possible as well,
and credit risk can be transferred partially through derivatives like credit
default swaps). For central banks, the opposite holds: market risks tend to
outweigh very considerably credit risks (but see Chapter 3 reﬂecting that
Table 1.2 Different reasons for holding foreign exchange reserves – importance attributed by reserve
managers according to a JPMorgan survey in April 2007
Very important
Important
Somewhat
important
Total
Conduct FX policies (interventions)
44%
23%
23%
91%
Crisis insurance
37%
28%
7%
72%
Serve external debt obligations
23%
12%
19%
53%
Ensure import coverage
21%
9%
19%
49%
Support country’s credit standing
12%
14%
23%
49%
Build national wealth (future generations)
12%
19%
28%
59%
Other
5%
0%
2%
7%
Source: JPMorgan ‘New trends in reserve management – Central bank survey’, February 2008.
1 Indeed, the size of central bank assets is in those cases not constrained by the size of banknotes in circulation and
reserve requirements. Such central banks typically have to absorb domestic excess liquidity, implying that the foreign
reserves are then countered on the asset side by the sum of banknotes and liquidity absorbing domestic (‘monetary
policy’) operations.
2 I wish to thank JPMorgan for allowing me to use the results from their 2007 central bank survey for this chapter. The
survey results were compiled from participants at the JPMorgan central bank seminar in April 2007. The responses
are those of the individuals who participated in the seminar and not necessarily those of the institutions they
represented. Overall, forty-four reserve managers replied to the survey. The total value of reserves managed by the
respondents to this survey was USD 4,828 billion or roughly 90 per cent of global official reserves as of December
2006. The sample had a balanced mix of central banks from industrialized and emerging market economies from all
parts of the world, but was biased toward central banks with large reserve holdings (the average size of reserve
holdings was USD 110 billion versus roughly USD 27 billion for all central banks in the world).
15
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 44 ---
credit risk may have become more important for central banks over the last
years). When decomposing further market risks taken by for instance the
ECB, such as done in the table below, the exceptionally high share of market
risks can be traced back to foreign exchange rate and commodity risks (the
latter relating to gold). Table 1.3 also reveals that in contrast to that, private
banks, as in this case Deutsche Bank, hold only to a very low extent foreign
exchange rate risk. Instead, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, equity price
risks dominate.
One may also observe that Deutsche Bank’s main risks are risks which are
remunerated (for which the holder earns a risk premium), while the very
dominating risk of the ECB, exchange rate risk, is a risk for which no pre-
mium is earned. It derives from one of the main policy tasks of a central bank,
namely to hold foreign reserves for intervention purposes. From the naı¨ve
perspective of a private bank risk manager, central bank risk taking could
therefore appear somewhat schizophrenic: holding huge non-remunerated
risks, but being highly risk averse on remunerated risks. While the former is
easily defended by a policy mandate and the large implicit ﬁnancial buffers
of central banks, the latter may be more debatable.
3.4 Financial stability functions
Under normal circumstances, central banks tend to be more risk averse in
their asset choices than the normal investor (e.g. typically, central bank
ﬁxed-income portfolios have a modiﬁed duration below the one of the
Table 1.3 Risk quantiﬁcation and economic capital, in billions of EUR, as at end 2005
Deutsche Bank
ECB, 99.9% VaR, one-year
horizon
Credit risk
7.1
0.2
Market risk (incl. private equity risk)
3.0
10.0
Of which: Interest rate risk
50%
5%
Equity price risk
30%
–
Exchange rate risk
12%
95%
Commodity
9%
Operational/business risk
2.7
?
Total economic capital need
12.3
?
Sources: Deutsche Bank (2005); ECB’s own calculations
16
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 45 ---
market portfolio).3 However, the role of the central bank to contribute to
ﬁnancial stability may imply a speciﬁc temporary shift of risk aversion,
namely to take in circumstances of ﬁnancial instability particular risks that
no private player is willing or able to take, thereby rescuing the liquidity of
some bank(s) and avoiding domino effects in the ﬁnancial sector that would
create substantial economic damages and welfare losses for society. Such
tasks obviously have implications on the assets held by the central bank at
least temporarily, and thereby in some sense reduce the leeway of the central
bank as investor. While in principle, ﬁnancial crisis management operations
should still be done prudently with a full awareness of associated risks and
with the central bank being independent from pressures by the Government
(unless the central bank has a clear loss transfer agreement with the Gov-
ernment), there are numerous cases, in particular from outside the OECD
(Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development), in which
emergency assistance to banks or even non-ﬁnancial industries has created
large non-performing central bank assets and made effective central bank
capital negative. It may also be worth mentioning that in the 1930s the
Bank of England was a large share-holder of industrial companies with
the aim to avoid, through support and restructuring, industry failures.4 This
is another example on how policy tasks may reduce the leeway of central
banks to act as an investor. Still, it is to be admitted that these are policy
constraints that today very rarely matter for central bank investments in
industrialized countries. Financial crisis management of central banks is
discussed in more detail from a risk management perspective in Chapter 11.
4. Optimal degree of diversiﬁcation of public institutions’
ﬁnancial assets
Strategic (or equilibrium) approaches, in contrast to active management
approaches, start from the assumption that markets are efﬁcient and that
the investor has no private information with regard to wrongly priced
3 In principle, risk aversion of an investor should imply keeping limited the duration mismatch between assets and
liabilities. In so far, a short duration of a central bank investment portfolio should reflect at the same time a view of
the central bank that the liabilities associated with the assets have a short duration, or are not relevant.
4 See Sayers (1976, vol. 1, chapter 14; 1976, vol. 2, chapter 20, section G). Sayers (1976, vol. 1, 314) writes: ‘The
intrusion of the Bank into problems of industrial organisation is one of the oddest episodes in its history: entirely out
of character with all previous development of the Bank. . .eventually becoming one of the most characteristic
activities of the Bank in the inter-war decades. It resulted from no grand design of policy, nor was the Bank dragged
unwillingly into it.’
17
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 46 ---
assets. ‘Passive portfolio management’ may correspondingly be deﬁned as
portfolio management being based on the idea that asset prices are broadly
adequate, such that the main aim is to engineer an appropriate diversiﬁ-
cation and risk–return combination taking into account risk preferences
and the non-alienable risk–return proﬁle of the investor. The capital asset
pricing model (CAPM) is normally the theoretical underpinning of such an
approach: accordingly, investors should hold a combination of the risk-free
asset and the ‘market portfolio’, which is simply the portfolio of out-
standing ﬁnancial assets weighted according to their actual weights in the
market. What does this market portfolio look like? According to a JPMorgan
estimate, 60% of outstanding global ﬁnancial assets were in September 2006
equity, followed by ﬁxed income with 35% and ‘alternatives’ of 5%. Of
course, the relative share of equity vis-a`-vis ﬁxed income ﬂuctuates over
time with market prices, i.e. in particular with equity prices. According to
Bandourian and Winkelmann (2003, 100), the share of equity recently
reached a minimum in October 1992 with 47% and a maximum of 63%
in March 2000. According to the Lehman Global aggregate index, as of 30
September 2006, Governments bonds constitute one-half of outstanding
global ﬁxed-income securities, followed by MBSs (18%), Corporates (17%)
and Agencies (6%). It is also interesting to look at the credit quality dis-
tribution globally. According to the Lehman global aggregate index, 57% of
outstanding ﬁxed-income securities would be AAA rated, 26% would be
AA, 13% A and only 4% would be BBB. Moreover, one can present the
split-ups according to asset classes, sectors and credit quality by currency
(e.g., USD, EUR and JPY). For the USD for instance, 34% of ﬁxed-income
securities are mortgages, 26% Treasuries, 20% Corporates, and 11% Agencies
(according to the sector allocation according to the Lehman US aggregate
index, September 30, 2006).
Finally, it is interesting to look at modiﬁed duration of the market port-
folio in different currencies and across different sectors of the ﬁxed-income
universe. The related information, which is based on securities data in
Bloomberg, is summarized in Table 1.4.5 As one can see, the different cur-
rency and sectoral components of the market portfolio for which duration
ﬁgures could be estimated relatively easily are all in the range from three to
ﬁve years, which appears to reﬂect preferences of investors and debtors.
Obviously, public institutions do not come close to holding the market
portfolio (combined with the risk-free asset), but this observation also holds
5 I wish to thank Herve´ Bourquin for this analysis.
18
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 47 ---
for other investors. Thus, one may ﬁrst want to ask why many investors
tend to diversify so little, and therefore often seem to diversify too little into
credit risk. Obviously, the assumptions underlying the CAPM are not
adequate, whereby the following ﬁve assumptions appear most relevant in
the context of the optimal degree of diversiﬁcation for public investors:
(1) No private information. There will always be private information in
ﬁnancial markets and as a consequence, in microeconomic terms, a
non-trivial price-discovery process. The existence of private infor-
mation is implied by the need to provide incentives for the production
of information (Grossman and Stiglitz, 1980). If private information is
in a market, and an investor belongs to the uninformed market
participants (i.e. acts like a ‘noise trader’), then he is likely to pay a price
to the informed trader, e.g. in the form of a bid–ask spread as modelled
by Treynor (1987), or Glosten and Milgrom (1985). This is a powerful
argument to stay away from markets about which one knows little. If
public institutions were comparably less efﬁcient in decision making
than private institutional investors, and had less leeway in remunerating
analysts and portfolio managers, one could argue generally against
competitiveness of public institutions to operate in markets with a big
potential for private information.
(2) No transaction, ﬁxed set-up and maintenance costs. Transaction costs
take at least the following three forms: costs of purchasing or selling
assets (the bid–ask spread being one part of those, the own costs of
handling the deal the other), ﬁxed one-off set-up costs for being able
to understand and trade an instrument type, and ﬁxed regular costs,
e.g. costs to maintain the necessary systems and knowledge. Fixed costs
arise in the front, middle and back ofﬁce since the relevant human
capital and IT systems need to be made available. Fixed set-up costs
imply that investors will stay completely out of certain asset classes,
despite the law of risk management that adding small uncorrelated risks
Tabel 1.4 Modiﬁed duration of ﬁxed-income market portfolios (as far as relevant)
USD
EUR
JPY
Central government
3.0
4.2
4.0
Agencies
3.6
5.1
3.8
Corporates
4.5
3.3
3.5
Sources: Bloomberg; ECB’s own calculations.
19
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 48 ---
does not increase total risk taking at all. Fixed set-up costs also imply
that the larger a portfolio, the more diversiﬁcation is optimal. Portfolio
optimization with ﬁxed costs can be done in the ‘brute force’ way by
just running a normal optimization for the different combinations of
asset classes (an asset class being deﬁned as a set of assets for which one
set-up investment has to be done), shifting then the efﬁcient frontiers
by the ﬁxed set-up costs to the left (considering the size of the
portfolio), choosing the optimal portfolio, and then selecting the best
amongst these optimal portfolios. While this implies that central banks
with large investment portfolios are more diversiﬁed in their invest-
ment than those with smaller portfolio size, it is interesting to observe
that this does not explain everything. In the Eurosystem for instance,
only two NCBs have diversiﬁed their USD assets into corporate bonds.
Large central bank investors may also be forced by the size of their
reserves to diversify to avoid an impact of their purchases on asset
prices (e.g. China with its reserves of over USD 1 billion).
(3) No ‘non-alienable’ risks. Each investor is likely to have some ‘non-
alienable’ risk–return factors on his balance sheet. In the case of human
beings, a major such risk factor is normally human capital (some have
estimated human capital to constitute more than 90 per cent of wealth
in the US, see Bandourian and Winkelmann (2003, 102)). In the case of
central banks, the risk and returns resulting from non-alienable policy
tasks are discussed further in Section 6.
(4) No liquidity risk. If investors have liquidity needs, because with a
certain probability they need to liquidate assets, they will possibly deviate
from the market portfolio in the sense of underweighting illiquid assets.
This may be very relevant for e.g. central banks holding an intervention
portfolio likely to be used.
(5) No reputation risk. Reputation risk may also be classiﬁed as non-
alienable risk factor being implied by policy tasks.
When considering a diversiﬁcation into a new asset category, a public
institution should thus not only make an analysis of the shift in the feasible
frontier that can be achieved by adding a new asset class in a portfolio
optimizer. It is a rather unsurprising outcome that the frontier will shift to
the left when adding a new asset class, but concluding from this that the
public institution should invest into the asset class would mean basing
decisions on a tautology. The above list of factors implying a divergence
from the market portfolio for every investor, and public institutions in
particular, should be analysed one by one for any envisaged diversiﬁcation
20
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 49 ---
project, and an attempt should be made to quantify each of the factors
before drawing an overall conclusion.
Finally, the ‘positive externalities’ argument in favour of active portfolio
management by central bank (see the excerpts in IMF 2005, section 3.5),
could also be applied for diversiﬁcation of central bank portfolios. If a
central bank is invested into a ﬁnancial instrument itself, it is more likely
that it will have really understood it, and thus it will understand its possible
role for monetary policy implementation or ﬁnancial stability. In so far,
the positive externality argument would drag the central bank’s investment
portfolio towards the market portfolio.
Tables 1.5 and 1.6 provide a survey of the degree of diversiﬁcation across
instrument classes that have been achieved by central banks in foreign
reserves. Table 1.5 provides estimates of the share of different asset classes,
according to Wooldridge (2006), who suggests that monetary authorities
have since the 1970s gradually diversiﬁed into higher-yielding, higher-risk
instruments, but nevertheless reserves are still invested mostly in very liquid
assets, with limited credit risk.
Table 1.6 provides the results of the JPMorgan reserve managers’ survey
on asset classes the central banks is currently allowed to use for planning.
Obviously, all or almost all central banks invest their foreign reserves into
sovereign bonds in the relevant currency. Also, a large majority invests in
(AAA rated) US Agency debt and Supranational bonds, whereby the weight
of the latter in the market portfolio is very small. All other major types of
bonds (corporate, MBS/ABS, Pfandbriefe, bank bonds) are eligible for up
to around 50 per cent of central banks. Outside ﬁxed-income securities,
deposits are of course used by most central banks, while equity has been
made eligible only by around 10 per cent of central banks.
Table 1.5 Asset classes used by central banks in their foreign reserves management
Asset class
Estimated share of asset class
in total reserves
Central Government bonds
73%
US Agencies debt
18%
Corporate bonds
3%
ABS/MBS
5%
Deposits
20%
Gold
10%
Source: Wooldridge (2006).
21
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 50 ---
According to Wooldridge (2006), the share of deposits is distributed rather
heterogeneously across central banks. For instance India would have
held 76% of its reserves in the form of deposits in 2006, and Russia 69%.
Gold reserves still constituted 60% of foreign reserves in 1980. Currency
composition of international foreign reserves would have been in 2006:
around 65% in USD, 25% in EUR, JPY, GBP, and all the rest around
3% each.
Finally, it is interesting to see which derivatives are used by central
banks in foreign reserve management, even if derivatives are by nature not
in themselves part of the market portfolio. Derivatives may be used for
efﬁciently replicating a benchmark (i.e. within a passive portfolio mana-
gement context), for hedging, or for active position taking. Table 1.7
provides results on derivative use by central banks from the 2007 JPMorgan
survey.
Table 1.6 Asset classes currently allowed or planned to be allowed according to a JPMorgan
survey conducted amongst reserve managers in April 2007
Approved
Planned
Gold
91%
0%
Deposits
100%
0%
US Treasuries
98%
0%
Euro govies
98%
0%
Japan and other OECD govies
77%
5%
US Agencies
88%
7%
TIPs
37%
9%
Supra/Sovereigns
98%
0%
Covered bonds
51%
12%
ABS/MBS
42%
16%
High-grade credit
35%
9%
High-yield credit
2%
2%
Emerging markets credits
12%
7%
Equities
9%
5%
Non-gold commodities
5%
2%
Hedge funds
2%
2%
Private equity
2%
2%
Real estate
5%
2%
Other
5%
0%
Source: JPMorgan ‘New trends in reserve management – Central bank survey’, February
2008.
22
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 51 ---
5. How actively should public institutions manage their
ﬁnancial assets?
5.1 The general usefulness and ‘industrial organization’ of active
portfolio management
Whether active management pays or not, being often associated with the
question of whether ﬁnancial markets are efﬁcient or not has been the topic
of extensive academic debate (for surveys of the topic see e.g. Grinold and
Kahn 2000, chapter 20; Cochrane 2001, 389; see also e.g. Ippolito 1989; Berk
and Green 2002; Engstro¨m 2004). Elton et al. (2003, 680) remain as agnostic
to say that ‘the case for passive versus active management certainly will not
be settled during the life of the present edition of the book, if ever’. Obvi-
ously, active management creates extra costs, namely: the costs of the analysis
on which the private views and forecasts are based; the cost of diversiﬁable
risk – active portfolios, by their nature, have often more diversiﬁable risk
than an index fund; higher transaction costs being due to a higher turn-over
of securities; higher governance costs (need of an additional investment
committee, etc.). It has been argued that these extra costs will not be easily
recovered if the efﬁciency of the market is sufﬁciently high. The ongoing
Table 1.7 Derivatives currently allowed or planned to be allowed according to a JPMorgan
survey conducted amongst thirty-eight reserve managers in April 2007
Approved
Planned
Gold swaps
32%
3%
Gold options
24%
3%
FX forwards
76%
3%
FX swaps
63%
5%
FX futures
18%
3%
FX options
26%
16%
Interest rate futures
61%
13%
Interest rate swaps
53%
16%
Interest rate options
18%
18%
Credit derivatives
8%
11%
Equity derivatives
8%
0%
Non-gold commodity derivatives
5%
0%
Source: JPMorgan ‘New trends in reserve management – Central bank survey’, February
2008.
23
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 52 ---
debate on the usefulness of active management may in fact appear sur-
prising, since already Grossman and Stiglitz had shown convincingly in
their seminal paper of 1980 that the question of the general usefulness of
active management is misplaced. Instead, active management needs to be
part of a competitive equilibrium itself:
If competitive equilibrium is deﬁned as a situation in which prices are such that all
arbitrage proﬁts are eliminated, is it possible that a competitive economy always be
in equilibrium? Clearly not, for then those who arbitrage make no (private) return
from their (privately) costly activity. . .We propose here a model in which there is
an equilibrium degree of disequilibrium: prices reﬂect the information of informed
individuals (arbitrageurs) but only partially, so that those who expend resources to
obtain information do receive compensation. (Grossman and Stiglitz 1980, 393)
Taking some complementary assumptions, Grossman and Stiglitz con-
cretely model the associated equilibrium, being characterized by an amount
of resources invested into informational activities, and a degree of efﬁciency
of market prices.6 In equilibrium, a population of active portfolio managers
with comparative advantages in this profession will emerge, in which the
least productive active manager will just be at the margin in terms of earning
the costs associated to him. Berk and Green (2002) develop an equilibrium
model in which the ﬂows of funds towards successful active managers
explain why in equilibrium, the different qualities of managers do not imply
that excess returns of actively managed funds are predictable. They assume
that returns to active management are decreasing with the volume of funds
managed, and the equality of marginal returns is then simply ensured by
the higher volumes of new funds ﬂowing to the successful managers.
In a noisy real world equilibrium with risk, there will always be a sig-
niﬁcant share of active managers who will have generated a loss, ex post. In
equilibrium, anyway, active portfolio management will not be an arbitrage,
i.e. the decision to invest money in a passively or in an actively managed
fund will be similar to the decision to invest in two different stocks: it will be
a matter of diversiﬁcation, and in a world with transaction costs and thus
imperfect diversiﬁcation, probably also of personal knowledge and risk
6 In contrast to this view, Sharpe (1991) argues that necessarily, ‘(1) before costs, the return on the average actively
managed dollar will equal the return on the average passively managed dollar and (2) after costs, the return on the
average actively managed dollar will be less than the return on the average passively managed dollar’. He proves his
assertion by deﬁning passive management as strict index tracking, and active management as all the rest. The two
views can probably be reconciled when introducing some kind of noise traders into the model, as it is done frequently
in micro-structure market models with insider information (see e.g. Kyle 1985).
24
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 53 ---
aversion. It appears plausible that any large investor should, for the sake
of diversiﬁcation, at least partially invest in actively managed portfolios.7
This however does not imply that all large investors should do active
management themselves. For analysing whether public institutions should
be involved in active portfolio management, it is obviously relevant to
understand in general how in equilibrium the portfolio management
industry should look like. Some factors will favour specialization of the asset
management industry into active and passive management. At the extreme,
one may imagine an industry structure made up only of two distinct types
of funds: pure hedge funds and passive funds. This may be due to the fact
that different management styles require a different technology, different
people, and different administration. The two activities would not be mixed
within one company exactly as a car maker does not horizontally integrate
into e.g. consumer electronics (e.g. Coase 1937; Williamson 1985). It would
just not be organizationally efﬁcient to pack into one company such diverse
activities as passive management and active management.
Other factors may favour non-specialization, i.e. that each investment
portfolio is complemented by some degree of active management. Indeed, the
general aim of diversiﬁcation could argue to always add at least a bit of
active management, as limited amounts add only marginal risk, especially
since the returns of active management tend to be uncorrelated to returns of
other assets. In the case of a hedge fund, in contrast, there is little of such
diversiﬁcation, as the risks from active management are not pooled with the
general market risks. It could also be argued that active management is
preferably done by pooling lots of bets (views), instead of basing all the
views on a few bets. One might thus argue that by letting each portfolio
manager think about views/bets, more comes out than if one just asks a few,
even if those are, on a one-by-one comparison basis, the better ones. Cre-
ativity in discovering arbitrages may be a resource too decentralized over
the population of all portfolio managers to narrow down the use of this
resource just to a small subset of them. Expressed differently, the marginal
returns of active management by individuals may be quickly decreasing,
such that specialization would have its limits.
7 Interestingly, the literature tends to conclude that index funds tend to outperform most actively managed funds, after
costs (e.g. Elton et al. 2003). This might itself be explained as an equilibrium result in some CAPM like world (because
returns of actively managed funds are so weakly correlated to returns of the market portfolio). This extension of the
CAPM of course raises a series of issues, in particular: The CAPM assumes homogenous expectations – how can this be
reconciled with active management? Probably, an actively managed portfolio is not too different from any other
company who earns its money through informational activities, and the speciality that an actively managed portfolio
deals with assets which are themselves in the market portfolio should after all not matter.
25
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 54 ---
Finally, one needs to recognize that portfolio management ﬁrms do not
tend to manage only one portfolio, but several ones, such that one ﬁrm may
have both actively and passively managed portfolios. It can then also pack
active and passive portfolios together into mixed portfolios, following e.g.
a so-called ‘core-satellite’ approach. Having actively and passively managed
portfolios in one ﬁrm may have the disadvantage mentioned above of
putting together two different production processes (like manufacturing
cars and consumer electronics), but at the same time it has the advantage to
allow for coordination within a hierarchical organization (e.g. in an opti-
mized core-satellite approach).
As the fund management industry is made up of hedge funds, mixed
funds (i.e. tracking an index with some intermediate risk budget to deviate
from it, being organized or not in a core-satellite way), and passively
managed funds, it seems that neither of the two factors working in different
directions completely dominates the other. It is in any case important to
retain that for every investor, the decision to have some funds dedicated
to active management is at least to some extent independent of whether it
should do active management itself. In other words: once an investor has
decided to dedicate funds to active management, he still faces the ‘make or
buy’ decision determining the efﬁcient boundaries of a ﬁrm. While the for-
mer decision is one which is to be modelled mainly with the tools of port-
folio theory, the latter is one in which tools from the industrial organization
literature would need to be applied.
5.2 Public institutions and central banks as active investors
The fact that public institutions tend to have more complex and rigid
decision-making procedures, and less leeway in the selection and com-
pensation of portfolio managers due to rules governing the employment of
public servants, could be seen as argument against genuine active portfolio
management. Being in competition with less constrained players also looking
for mispriced assets, active management could thus end up in losses, at least
if the ﬁxed costs are correctly accounted for. Alternatively, it could be
argued that the private sector should not be overestimated either and that
there are enough ﬁnancial market inefﬁciencies to allow also the central
bank to make additional money by position taking. Eventually, a good
performance attribution model should be in place to decide on whether
active management contributes positively to performance (see Chapter 7 of
this book). The conclusion may be different for different types of positions
26
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 55 ---
taken. What is important is to come eventually to a net cost–beneﬁt
assessment, i.e. one in which the full costs of active management enter the
analysis. Also, possible positive externalities (point 9 in Section 2) would
have to be considered in this analysis. Also the fact that central banks are
insiders inter alia on interest rates could be seen to argue against active
management. It may however be possible to remedy this issue partially
with a Chinese wall, behavioural rules, or by precluding the kind of posi-
tions which are most subject to potential use of insider information, namely
yield curve and duration position in the central bank’s own currency. These
measures could also be combined, on the basis of some assumptions on
the likely relevance of insider information for different types of positions.
The speciﬁcity that public institutions do not have the task to maximize their
income, but social welfare, would also argue against active management of
central banks, as it is at least partially a re-distributive, zero-sum activity
(the argument of Hirshleifer (1971)). One could argue that active portfolio
management, being based on private information, is by deﬁnition not
compatible with transparency and accountability standards that should
apply for public institutions, and thus are not a natural activity for pub-
lic institutions. Related to that, one may argue that active management
unavoidably represents a source of reputation risk. Central banks have special
reasons to develop market intelligence, since they need to implement
monetary policy in an efﬁcient way, and need to stand ready to operate as
lender of last resort. Active management could be an instrument contrib-
uting to the central bank’s best possible understanding of ﬁnancial markets,
which is useful for other core central bank tasks, such as monetary policy
implementation or the contribution to ﬁnancial stability. A counter-
argument could be that intelligent passive portfolio management, using a
variety of different instruments, also force the staff to understand.
These speciﬁcities are affected by an outsourcing of active management
to private investment companies to a different extent. Depending on which
weight is given to the different pro- and con-active management speciﬁ-
cities, one thus may or may not ﬁnd outsourcing attractive. It has also been
argued that a partial outsourcing is attractive, as it provides a further ref-
erence for assessing the performance of active managers in general. On the
other side one may argue that outsourcing is itself labour intensive, and
would thus be worth it only if the outsourced amounts are substantial. It
has been estimated that at least two-thirds of central banks use external
managers for some portion or even all of their reserves.
27
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 56 ---
One may try to summarize the discussion on the suitability of active portfolio
management for central banks and other public investors as follows. First,
genuine active management is based on the idea that private information,
or private analysis, allows detecting wrongly priced assets. Over- or under-
weighting those relative to the market portfolio then allows increasing expected
returns, without necessarily implying increased risk. There is no doubt that in
equilibrium, active management has a sensible role in ﬁnancial markets. Sec-
ond, while it is plausible as well that in equilibrium, large investors will hold
at least some actively managed portfolios, it is not likely that every portfolio
should be managed actively. In other words, it is important to separate the
issue of diversiﬁcation of investors into active management from the indus-
trial organization issue of which portfolio managers should take up this
business. Indeed, hedge funds, passively managed funds and mixed funds
coexist in reality. Third, a number of central bank speciﬁcities could appear
to argue against central banks being amongst the active portfolio managers.
There is, however, one potentially important argument in favour of central
banks being active managers, namely the implied incentives to develop
market intelligence. As it is difﬁcult to weigh the different arguments, it is not
obvious to draw general conclusions. Eventually, central bank investment
practice has emerged to include some active management, mostly undertaken
by the staff of the central bank itself, and sometimes being outsourced.
Table 1.8 provides a self-assessment of forty-two central bank reserves
managers with regard to the degree of activism of their trading style, such as
collected in the JPMorgan reserve managers survey. It appears that the style
called in the survey ‘active benchmark trading’, i.e. benchmark tracking
with position taking in the framework of a relatively limited risk budget, is
predominant amongst central banks.
Table 1.8 Trading styles of central bank reserves managers according to a JPMorgan survey
conducted amongst forty-two reserve managers in April 2007
Describes exactly style
Describes somewhat style
Buy and hold
12%
19%
Passive benchmark tracking
12%
24%
Active benchmark trading
64%
21%
Active total return trading
10%
12%
Segregated alpha trading
2%
7%
Source: JPMorgan ‘New trends in reserve management – Central bank survey’,
February 2008.
28
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 57 ---
6. Policy-related risk factors
Section 8 of this chapter will develop the idea of an integrated risk mana-
gement for central banks. An integrated risk management obviously needs
to look at the entire balance sheet of a central bank, and at all major risk
factors, including the non-alienable risk factors (i.e. the risk factors relating
to policy tasks). This section discusses four key non-alienable risk factors
of central banks. While Section 3 explained how the underlying policy tasks
have made large-scale investors out of central banks, the present section looks
at them from the perspective of integrated central bank risk management.
Genuine threats to the structural proﬁtability of central banks, which are
often linked to policy tasks, have been discussed mainly in the literature on
central bank capital. A speciﬁc model of central bank capital, namely the
one of Bindseil et al. (2004a), will be presented in the following section.
Here, we brieﬂy review the threats to proﬁtability that have been mentioned
in this literature. Stella (1997; 2002) was one of the ﬁrst to analyse the fact
that several central banks had incurred such large losses due to policy tasks
that they had to be recapitalizd by the government. For instance in Uruguay
in the late 1980s, the central bank’s losses were equal to 3% of GDP; in
Paraguay the central bank’s losses were 4% of GDP in 1995; in Nicaragua
losses were a staggering 13.8% of GDP in 1989. By the end of 2000, the
Central Bank of Costa Rica had negative capital equal to 6% of GDP.8
Martı´nez-Resano (2004) surveys the full range of risks that a central bank’s
balance sheet is subject to. He concludes that, in the long run, central banks’
ﬁnancial independence should be secure as long as demand for banknotes
is maintained. According to Dalton and Dziobek (2005, 3):
Under normal circumstances, a central bank should be able to operate at a proﬁt with
a core level of earnings derived from seigniorage. Losses would have, however, arisen
in several central banks from a range of activities including: open market operations;
sterilization of foreign currency inﬂows; domestic and foreign investments, credit,
and guarantees; costs associated with ﬁnancial sector restructuring; direct or implicit
interest subsidies; and non-core activities of a ﬁscal or quasi-ﬁscal nature.
In a recent comprehensive study, Schobert9 analyses 108 central banks’
ﬁnancial statements over a total of 1880 years. Out of those, 43 central
8 See also Leone (1993), Dalton and Dziobek (2005).
9 See Schobert, F. 2007. ‘Risk management at central banks’, unpublished presentation given in a central banking
course at Deutsche Bundesbank.
29
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 58 ---
banks recorded at least once an annual loss, and 146 years of losses were
observed in total. She attributes 41 per cent of loss years to the need to
sterilize excess liquidity (which is typically due to large foreign exchange
ﬂows into the central bank balance sheet), and 33 per cent to FX valuation
changes (i.e. devaluation of foreign reserves). Only 3 per cent would be
attributed to credit losses, and there is no separate category regarding losses
due to market price changes other than foreign exchange rate changes. In
other words, interest rate risks were not considered a relevant category,
probably because never was an end of year loss driven by changes of interest
rates. These ﬁndings conﬁrm that policies, and in particular foreign
exchange rate policies, are the real threat to central bank proﬁtability and
capital, and not interest rate and credit risks; although those are the types of
risks to which central bank risk managers devote most of their time, as these
are the risks that are controlled through ﬁnancial risk management deci-
sions, while the others are largely implied by policy considerations, which
may be seen to be outside the reach of ﬁnancial risk management. However,
even if a total priority of policy considerations would be accepted, still the
lesson from the ﬁndings of Schobert and others is that when optimizing
the ﬁnancial assets of a central bank from the ﬁnancial risk management
perspective, one should never ignore the policy risk factors and how they
correlate with the classical ﬁnancial risk factors. In the following, the four
main identiﬁed policy risk factors are discussed in more depth.
6.1 Banknotes, seignorage, and liquidation risk
The privilege to issue banknotes is a fundamental component of central
bank proﬁtability, and hence the scenario that this privilege will lose its
relevance is one of the real long-term risk factors for central banks. For
a very long time, central bankers and academics have speculated about
a future decline in the demand for banknotes. Woodford (2001, section 2)
provides an overview of recent literature on the topic. One may summarize:
while there are a variety of reasons why improvements in information
technology (like the more systematic use of smart cards) might be expected
to reduce the demand for banknotes, it does not appear that those devel-
opments are in real competition to the main uses of banknotes, which
explain the high amounts of banknotes in circulation (of around EUR 1500
per capita in the euro area). Moreover, the actual use of e.g. smart cards has
progressed only slowly, while e.g. credit cards have been in circulation for
a long time. Goodhart (2000), for example, argues that the popularity of
30
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 59 ---
currency will never wane – at least in the black-market transactions that
arguably account for a large fraction of aggregate currency demand – owing
to its distinctive advantages in allowing for unrecorded transactions. The
evolution of banknotes in circulation over the last years in both USD and
EUR, has not given any indication of a decreasing trend (more the con-
trary). Another indicator against the hypothesis of a forthcoming disap-
pearance of the circulation of banknotes and coins in the case of the euro
area is a look at denominations in circulations. In fact, only 83 out of EUR
620 billion of currency in circulation was denominated in banknotes with a
nominal value of less than EUR 50 or in coins, i.e. the typical transaction
balances. More than 50 per cent of the value of currency in circulation was
in denominations above EUR 50, i.e. denominations one rarely is con-
fronted with. In line with this observation, Fischer et al. (2004) conclude
that the various methods they apply all indicate rather low levels of trans-
action balances used within the euro area, namely of around 25–35 per cent
of total currency.
In case one would be able to establish a probability distribution for the
evolution of banknotes in circulation over a certain, say ten-year horizon –
how to integrate exactly the risk factor ‘volume of banknotes in circulation’
into a risk management model for central banks? Two main types of risks
may be distinguished in relation to banknotes. First, a decline of banknotes
would imply a decline of seignorage, even if the assets counterbalancing
banknotes would be perfectly liquid. This is the topic of Section 7. Second,
in the short term, the decline of banknotes creates liquidation and liquidity
risk. ‘Liquidation risk’ is the risk that assets need to be liquidated before
the end of the investment horizon. In such a case, the originally assumed
investment horizon would have been wrong, and accordingly the assumed
optimum asset allocation would actually not have been optimal. ‘Liquidity
risk’ is the risk that due to the need to undertake large rapid sales, prices
obtained are inﬂuenced in a non-favourable manner. For the issue con-
sidered here (reversal of trend growth in banknotes in circulation), liquid-
ation risk could appear more important than liquidity risk. It should be
noted that it is not only the uncertainty about the demand for banknotes
which creates liquidation risk. Similar risk factors are: (i) for domestic
ﬁnancial assets, the need to build up foreign reserves; (ii) for foreign
reserves assets, the need to liquidate those assets for foreign reserve inter-
ventions; (iii) the need to buy assets for some other policy reasons, such as
emergency liquidity assistance to banks. The case with uncertainty of non-
maturing liabilities has been modelled e.g. by Kalkbrener and Willing (2004),
31
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 60 ---
who propose a general quantitative framework for liquidity risk and interest
rate risk management for non-maturing liabilities, i.e. allowing to model
both an optimal liquidity and maturity structure of assets on the basis of the
stochastic factors (which includes interest rate risks) of liabilities. Overall, it
appears that banknotes are much more important in terms of risk factors as
putting seignorage at risk, than to create liquidation and liquidity risks.
6.2 Monetary policy interest rates
Another major risk factor to the long-term proﬁtability and positive capital
of the central bank is that the currency falls into the deﬂationary trap, as did
the JPY in the 1990s, or as other currencies did e.g. in the 1930s. Monetary
policy rates need to be set by a central bank according to an objective –
normally to maintain price stability. To model this, it may be assumed that
there is a Wicksellian relationship between inﬂation tomorrow and inﬂation
today, i.e. inﬂation normally accelerates if interest rates on monetary policy
operations are below the sum of the real rate on capital and the current
inﬂation rate.10 This Wicksellian relationship is also the basis for the cen-
tral bankers’ Angst from a deﬂationary spiral: if deﬂation ever reaches a
momentum to be larger than the real interest rate, then negative nominal
interest rates would be required to change this deﬂation again into price
stability or inﬂation. As negative nominal interest rates are however in
principle impossible, at least as long as banknotes in their current form
exist, deﬂation would accelerate more and more, and prices could never
stop falling again, eventually making a total monetary reform unavoidable.
While long-lasting deﬂations in which the central bank put nominal interest
rates to zero without this solving quickly the problem have indeed been
observed, a true deﬂationary spiral which ended in ever-accelerating price
decreases has not.
Modelling the deﬂation risk factor from a ﬁnancial investment pers-
pective requires understanding to the largest possible extent the factors
determining the setting of the policy rate by central banks, i.e. what the
macro model of the central bank looks like, and how the exogenous vari-
ables deemed relevant by the central bank will evolve and possibly exert
shocks pushing the system into deﬂation. The model in Section 7 provides
more detailed insights into how one may imagine a stylized relationship
between macroeconomic shocks, the monetary policy strategy of the central
10 See Woodford (2003) for a discussion of such Wicksellian inﬂation functions.
32
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 61 ---
bank, and the ﬁnancial situation of the central bank. What should be
retained here is that on average, monetary policy rates will reﬂect the sum
of the real interest rate and the central bank’s inﬂation target. Real interest
rates ﬂuctuate with the business cycle, and may be exposed to a certain
downward trend in an aging society (on this, see for instance Saarenheimo
(2005) who predicts as a result of ageing a possible decline of worldwide
real interest rates by 70 basis points, or possibly more in case of restrictive
changes in the pension system). For a credible central bank, average inﬂa-
tion rates should equal the inﬂation target (or benchmark inﬂation rate).
A higher inﬂation rate is in principle better for central bank income than
a lower inﬂation target. However, of course, the choice of the inﬂation
target should be dominated by monetary policy considerations. Moreover,
the amount of banknotes in circulation will depend on the expected
inﬂation rate, i.e. the central bank will face a Laffer curve in the demand for
banknotes (see e.g. Calvo and Leiderman 1992; Guitierrez and Vazquez
2004). Therefore, the income maximizing inﬂation rate will not be inﬁnite.
For a proper modelling of the short-term interest rate and its impact on
the real wealth of the central bank (including correlation with other risk
factors), it will be relevant to also distinguish shocks to the real rate from
shocks to the inﬂation rate. This is an issue often neglected by investors.
6.3 Foreign exchange reserves and exchange rate changes
Foreign exchange rate policy is one of the traditional elements of central
bank policy. This typically implies the holding of foreign exchange reserves,
creating the risks of mark-to-market losses. ECB internal estimates show
that, at conventional conﬁdence levels, around 95 per cent of the total VaR
of the ECB can be attributed to exchange rate risks (including gold). Also
independently of foreign exchange rate movements, holding foreign exchange
reserves is typically costly for central banks, in particular for countries which
have (i) a need to mop up excess liquidity in their domestic money market;
(ii) have higher domestic interest rates than the interest rate of the reserve
currency; (iii) of which the currency is subject to revaluation gains. While
this situation appears in contradiction with covered interest rate parity, it
has actually been relevant for a large number of development and transition
countries for a number of years. Rodrik (2006), for example, estimates the
income loss for these countries to have been on average around 1 per cent of
their GDP, whereby he also concludes that ‘this does not represent too steep
a price as an insurance premium against ﬁnancial crises’. Interestingly the
33
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 62 ---
survey of Dalton and Dziobek (2005, 8) reveals that all of the substantial
central bank losses they detected during the 1990s, concerning Brazil, Chile,
the Czech Republic, Hungary, Korea and Thailand, reﬂected some foreign
reserves issue. In fact all of these reﬂected a mismatch between returns on
foreign reserves assets and higher costs of absorbing domestic liquidity
(reﬂecting both interest rate differentials and revaluation effects.). In
Schobert’s analysis,11 74 per cent of observed annual central bank losses
were due to FX issues.
6.4 The central bank as ﬁnancial crisis manager
Financial crisis management measures often imply particular ﬁnancial risk
taking by the central bank (see Chapter 11 for details). This should be
factored into an integrated long-term risk management of the central bank:
in bad tail events, the central bank may not only make losses with its
investments, but may also have to do costly crisis management operations,
implying possibly losses from two sides. As indicated by Schobert, only
3 per cent of annual central bank losses would have been driven clearly by
credit losses, of which those driven by emergency liquidity assistance
operations would be a subset. A typical problem in developing countries’
central banks are non-performing loans to banks in central bank balance
sheets which are not really originating from ELA, but from the granting of
credit to banks without following prudent central banking principles,
maybe upon request or order of the Government (see e.g. Dalton and
Dziobek 2005, 6). Although relevant for many central banks, in particular in
developing countries, the model in Section 7 does not include this risk.
7. The role of central bank capital – a simple model
Capital plays a key role in integrated risk management for any ﬁnancial
institution, as it constitutes the buffer against total losses and thereby
protects against insolvency. The Basel accords document the importance
attached to bank capital from the supervisory perspective. This section
provides a short summary of a model of central bank capital by Bindseil,
Manzanares and Weller (2004a), in the following referred to as ‘BMW’. The
11 Schobert, F. 2007. ‘Risk management at central banks’, unpublished presentation given in a central banking course at
Deutsche Bundesbank.
34
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 63 ---
main purpose of BMW had been to show how central bank capital may
matter for the achievement of the central bank’s policy tasks. The mech-
anisms by which central bank capital can impact on a central bank’s ability
to achieve price stability were illustrated in this paper by a simple model in
which there is a kind of dichotomy between the level of capital and inﬂation
performance. The model is an appropriate starting point to derive the actual
reasons for the relevance of central bank capital in the most transparent
way. The starting point of the model speciﬁcation is the following central
bank balance sheet.
Stylised balance sheet of a central bank
Assets
Liabilities
Monetary policy operations (‘M’)
Banknotes (‘B’)
Other ﬁnancial assets (‘F’)
Capital (‘C’)
Banknotes are assumed to always appear on the liability side, while the
three other items can be a priori on any side of the balance sheet. For the
purpose of the model, a positive sign is given to monetary policy and other
ﬁnancial assets when they appear on the asset side and a positive sign to
capital when it appears on the liability side. The following assumptions are
taken on each of these items:
 Monetary policy operations can be interpreted as the residual of the balance
sheet. This position is remunerated at iM per cent, the operational target
interest rate of the central bank. Assume that the central bank, when
setting, follows a kind of simpliﬁed Taylor rule of the type iM,t ¼ 4 þ 1.5
(pt  12). According to this rule, the real rate of interest is 2 per cent and
the inﬂation target is also 2 per cent.12 An additional condition has also
been introduced in the Taylor rule, namely that in case it would imply
pushing expected inﬂation in the following year into negative values, the
rule is modiﬁed so as to imply an expected inﬂation of 0 per cent. It will
later be modelled that for proﬁtability/capital reasons, i.e., reasons not
relating directly to its core task, the central bank may also deviate from
this interest rate setting rule.
 Other ﬁnancial assets contain foreign exchange reserves including gold
but possibly also domestic ﬁnancial assets clearly not relating to monetary
policy. Assume it is remunerated at iF per cent. The rate iF per cent may
12 See e.g. Woodford 2003 for a discussion of the properties of such policy rules.
35
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 64 ---
be higher or lower than iM per cent, which depends inter alia on the yield
curve, international imbalances in economic conditions, the share (if any)
of gold in F, etc. Also, F can be assumed to produce revaluation gains/
losses each year. One may assume that iF,t ¼ iM,t þ q þ xt with normally,
but not necessarily, q>0, implying that the rate of return on F would tend
to be higher than the interest rate applied to the monetary policy
instruments, and xt is a random variable with zero mean reﬂecting the
associated risks. F can in principle be determined by the central bank,
but it may also be partially imposed on the central bank through its
secondary functions or ad hoc requests of the Government. Indeed, F
may include, especially in developing countries, claims resulting from
bank bailouts or from direct lending to the Government, etc. Typically,
such assets are remunerated at below market interest rates, such that one
would obtain q > 0. The model treats ﬁnancial assets in the most
simplistic way, but this is obviously where the traditional central bank
risk management would be very differentiated about (while ignoring the
three other balance sheet items).
 Banknotes are assumed to depend on inﬂation and normally follow some
increasing trend over time, growing faster when inﬂation is high. Assume
that Bt ¼ Bt1 þ Bt1ð2 þ ptÞ=100 þ Bt1et, whereby pt is the inﬂation
rate, ‘2’ is the assumed real interest or growth rate and et is a noise term.
It is assumed that the real interest rate is exogenous. Despite the
development of new retail payment technologies over many years and
speculation that banknotes could vanish in the long run, banknotes have
continued to increase in most countries at approximately the rate of
growth of nominal GDP. Our stylized balance sheet does not contain
reserves (deposits) of banks with the central bank, but it can be assumed
alternatively that reserves are implicitly contained in banknotes (which
may thus be interpreted as the monetary base). The irrelevance of the
particular distribution of demand between banknotes in circulation and
reserves with the central bank would thus add robustness to this
assumption on the dynamics of the monetary base.13
 Capital depends on the previous year’s capital, the previous year’s proﬁt
(or loss), and the proﬁt sharing rule between the central bank and the
Government. In the basic model setting, it is assumed that the proﬁt
13 A switch from banknotes holdings to reserve holdings would imply that seignorage revenues would in the first case
stem from a general tax to the holders of banknotes, while in the second case they would be comparable to a tax on
the banking sector.
36
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 65 ---
sharing rule is as follows: if proﬁt is positive, i.e. Pt  1>0 then
Ct ¼ Ct  1 þ aPt 1 (with 0 < a < 1) else Ct ¼ Ct  1 þ Pt  1, and a is set
to 0.5. Proﬁts depend on the returns on the different balance sheet
positions and on operating costs. With regard to operating costs, q, it
may be assumed that they grow over time at the inﬂation rate. Proﬁt and
thus Capital is likely to contain a further random element, which reﬂects
that extraordinary costs may arise to the central bank when the
Government manages to assign additional duties to the bank. In the
less industrialized countries, these costs could typically be the support of
insolvent banks, or the forced granting of credit to the Government. As
mentioned above, such factors can also be modelled as affecting the
remuneration rate of ﬁnancial assets.
An equation that explains the evolution across time of the inﬂation rate
completes the model. A Wicksellian relationship between inﬂation tomor-
row and inﬂation today is assumed, i.e. ptþ1 ¼ pt þ bð2 þ pt  iM;tÞ þ lt,
i.e. inﬂation normally accelerates if interest rates on monetary policy
operations are below the sum of the real rate on capital (2 per cent) and the
current inﬂation rate. The noise term lt means that inﬂation is never fully
controlled. The equation also implies that there is a risk of ending in a
deﬂationary trap: when pt <  2, then, due to the zero constraint to interest
rates, prices should start falling further and further, even if interest rates are
zero. If lt  Nð0; r2
lÞ, this can always happen theoretically, but of course
the likelihood decreases rapidly when the sum of the present inﬂation and
of the real rate is high. Adding a time index t for the year, the time series are
thus determined as follows over time:14
pt ¼ pt1 þ bð2 þ pt1  iM;t1Þ þ lt
ð1:1Þ
qt ¼ ð1 þ pt=100Þqt1
ð1:2Þ
Ft ¼ F
ð1:3Þ
if Pt1  0 then Ct ¼ Ct1 þ aPt1 ðwith 0 < a < 1Þ;
else Ct ¼ Ct1 þ Pt1
ð1:4Þ
Bt ¼ Bt1 þ Bt1ð2 þ ptÞ=100 þ et
ð1:5Þ
14 The order of the equations, although irrelevant from a conceptual point of view, reflects how the eight variables can
be updated sequentially and thus how simulations can be obtained.
37
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 66 ---
if maxð4 þ 1:5ðpt1  2Þ; 0Þ < pt1
b
þ 2 þ pt1 then
iM;t ¼ maxð4 þ 1:5ðpt1  2Þ; 0Þ; else iM ¼ pt1
b
þ 2 þ pt1
ð1:6Þ
iF;t ¼ iM;t þ q þ xt
ð1:7Þ
Mt ¼ Bt þ Ct  Ft
ð1:8Þ
Pt ¼ iM;tMt þ iF;tFt  qt
ð1:9Þ
This simple modelling framework captures all basic factors relevant for the
proﬁt situation of a central bank and the related need for central bank capital.
It can also be used to analyse the interaction between the central bank balance
sheet, interest rates and inﬂation. It should be noted that, from equation (1.1)
and iM;t ¼ 4 þ 1:5ðpt1  2Þ, a second-order differences equation can be
derived of the form ptþ1  ð1 þ bÞpt1 þ 1:5bpt2 ¼ b þ lt. Disregarding
the stochastic component, l, this equation has a non-divergent solution
whenever 2=3 < b < 2=3. The constant solution pt ¼ 2; 8t, is a priori a
solution in the deterministic setting. However, it has probability 0 when
considering again the shocks lt.
Simulations can be performed to calculate the likelihood of proﬁtability
problems arising under various circumstances. The model can be calibrated
for any central bank and for any macroeconomic environment. The impact
of capital on the central bank’s proﬁtability and hence ﬁnancial inde-
pendence is now brieﬂy discussed. First, as long as bankruptcy of the central
bank is excluded, by deﬁnition, negative capital is not a problem per se.
Indeed, as long as the central bank can issue the legal tender, it is not clear
what could cause bankruptcy. By substitution, using the balance sheet
identity, one obtains the proﬁt function:
Pt ¼ iM;tðBt þ CtÞ þ ðiF  iMÞ:Ft  qt
ð1:10Þ
Therefore, a higher capital means higher proﬁts since it increases the size of
the (cost-free) liability side. For given values of the other parameters, one
may therefore calculate a critical value of central bank capital, which is
38
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 67 ---
needed to make the central bank proﬁtable at a speciﬁc moment in time:
Pt > 0 ) Ct>  ðiF  iMÞ
iM
Ft þ 1
iM
qt  Bt
ð1:11Þ
Unsurprisingly, the higher the monetary policy interest rates, the lower the
critical level of capital required to avoid losses, since the central bank does
not pay interest on banknotes (or excess reserves, i.e. reserve holdings in
excess of the required reserves). A priori this level of capital can be positive
or negative, i.e. positive capital is neither sufﬁcient nor necessary for a
central bank to be proﬁtable. It would also be possible for a central bank
with positive capital to suffer losses over a long period, which could
eventually result in negative capital. Likewise, a central bank with negative
capital could have permanent proﬁts, which would eventually lead to
positive capital. Moreover, when considering the longer-term proﬁtability
outlook of a central bank in this deterministic set-up, it will turn out that
initial conditions for capital and other balance sheet factors are irrelevant
and the only crucial aspect is given by the growth rate of banknotes as
compared with the growth rate of operating costs. The intuition for this
result (stated in proposition 1 below) is that, when considering only the
long term, in the end the growth rate of banknotes needs to dominate the
growth rate of costs, independently of other initial conditions.
When running Monte Carlo simulations of the model (see Bindseil et al.
2004a section 4), the starting value of the array (M0, F0, B0, C0, p0, i0) as well
as the level of the parameters (a, b, q, a2
e, r2
x, r2
l) will be crucial for
determining the likelihood that a central bank will be at a certain moment
in time in the domain of positive capital and proﬁtability.
Having shown that in the model above, a perfect dichotomy exists
between the central bank’s balance sheet and its monetary performance,
BMW continue by asking how one explains the observation, made for
instance by Stella (2003), that many ﬁnancially weak central banks are
associated with high inﬂation rates. It is likely that there is another set of
factors, related to the institutional environment in which the central bank
exists, that is causing a relationship between the weakness in the central
bank’s ﬁnancial position and its inability to control inﬂation. BMW argue
that the relevance of capital for the achievement of price stability can be
explained by considering what exactly happens in case the privilege to issue
legal tender is withdrawn from the central bank. If the central bank lost the
right to issue currency, it would still need to pay its expenses (salaries, etc.)
39
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 68 ---
in a new legal tender that it does not issue. Also, banknotes and outstanding
credits would need to be redeemed in the new currency at a certain ﬁxed
exchange rate. Consider the two cases of central banks with positive and
with negative capital with a very simple balance sheet consisting only in
Capital, Banknotes, and monetary policy operations.
Two central banks, before their right to issue legal tender is withdrawn
Positive Capital Central Bank
Negative Capital Central Bank
Banknotes 
Banknotes 
Monetary policy
operations 
Capital 
Capital
(negative)
 
Monetary policy
operations  
After the withdrawal of the right to issue legal tender, both central banks
become normal ﬁnancial institutions. After liquidating their banknotes and
monetary policy operations, their balance sheets take the following shape:
Two central banks, after their right to issue legal tender is withdrawn
Positive Capital (former) Central Bank  
Negative Capital (former) Central Bank
Financial
assets
 
Capital
 
Capital
(negative)
 
Financial debt
Obviously, the second institution is bankrupt, and the holders of its
banknotes and of liquidity absorbing monetary policy operations are not
likely to recover their claims. Also, the institution will immediately have
to stop paying salaries and pensions, etc. In case of a positive probability
of withdrawal of the right to issue legal tender, central bank capital and
proﬁtability will thus matter. In the case of negative capital, the staff and
decision-making bodies of the central bank thus have incentives to get out
of the negative capital situation by lowering interest rates below the neutral
level, which in turn triggers inﬂation, and eventually an increase of the
monetary base up till positive capital is restored.
One may thus conclude that the higher the likelihood of a central bank to
lose its right to issue legal tender, the more important central bank capital
becomes. As the likelihood of such an event will however never be zero,
central bank capital will always matter. Once this conclusion is drawn, one
can start deriving, through simulations, which level of central bank capital
is adequate to ensure a monetary policy aiming exclusively at maintaining
40
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 69 ---
price stability. Assuming that the central bank will thus normally care about
proﬁtability and positive capital, one may, in the case of negative capital,
substitute the interest rate generated by the Taylor rule iM,t by an interest
rate ~iM;tdetermined as follows (with h<0 a constant):
~iM;t ¼ minð4 þ h; iM;tÞ
The functional form given to the capital term in this equation is, of course,
ad hoc. It implies that if capital is negative, the central bank no longer reacts
to an increase of inﬂation (reﬂected in the suppression of the inﬂation term)
and even reduces rates further, by an amount corresponding to h. Assuming
that central banks will thus follow inﬂationary policies when having nega-
tive capital, and introducing the possibility of large negative shock to proﬁt
(due e.g. to a foreign exchange revaluation or ‘contingent liabilities’ as
formulated by Blejer and Schumacher (2000)) in the simple model above,
allows deriving a positive relationship between capital and inﬂation per-
formance. One may then calculate the ‘value at risk’ of the central bank and
determine a capital that with, say, a 95 per cent probability ensures that
within one year capital will not be exhausted. This is the approach basic-
ally taken by Ernhagen et al. (2002) without however the comprehensive
modelling framework proposed by BMW.
8. Integrated risk management for public investors
8.1 Integrated ﬁnancial risk management in general
Integrated risk management is the holy grail of risk management in any
bank. It means essentially being comprehensive and consistent in terms of
the risk–return analysis and management of all of the institution’s activities.
Often, the term is also used for corporates, and it is stressed that it includes
not only ﬁnancial risks, but all other sorts of risks, like business or opera-
tional risks. Sometimes, the term integrated risk management is also asso-
ciated with ‘best practice’ concepts and ‘ﬁrm-wide risk management’ such
as done by Jorion (2003, chapter 27). Accordingly, integrated / ﬁrm-wide
risk management would rest on three pillars, namely best practice policies
(clear mission statement, well-deﬁned risk tolerance and philosophy,
responsible policies endorsed and understood by the board of directors);
best practice methodologies (analytical methods to measure, control, and
manage ﬁnancial risks), and best practice infrastructures (IT systems,
41
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 70 ---
organizational design). Focusing here on the issue of integrating ﬁnancial
risk management in the narrow sense, one may structure the key inputs to
this approach in the following somewhat theoretical three categories:
(1) The starting point of an integrated risk management of a bank is a
business model of the bank and of the relevant business lines. For
each business line, a sort of ‘production function’ has to be assumed,
which maps input factors into outputs, and which allows, knowing
input and output prices, to calculate a proﬁt contribution function and
eventually an optimal size of the different activities.
(2) Risk factors have to be introduced into this, whereby these may
concern both market prices and the production processes themselves.
A description of the stochastics includes ideally the joint probability
distributions of all risk factors, or, more pragmatically, some descriptive
parameters like variances and covariances.
(3) The relationship between overall risk taking, leveraging, capital and
reﬁnancing costs has to be established. Choosing certain values of these
variables, taking into account the relationship between them, means at
the same time accepting a certain probability of default, which is also
relevant for the relationship with other, non-ﬁnancial stakeholders.
On the basis of these inputs, one can then in theory derive simultaneously
the following elements of an optimum: First, one may establish the efﬁcient
frontier of the company in the expected proﬁt–risk plane. Second, by
matching the efﬁcient frontier with the risk–return preferences of the
company’s owners (or other stakeholders), one may ﬁnd the point on the
efﬁcient set which maximizes the utility function of the owner (and/or other
stakeholders). In this, taxation considerations should be taken into account
as well, as taxation is normally not linear (but convex), and therefore makes
expected proﬁts shrink when volatility of gross proﬁts increases. Third, in
line with the chosen point on the efﬁcient frontier, one obtains optimal
amounts of business activities (or asset sizes etc.) in the different business
lines, and, accordingly allocates a risk budget to those business lines and
activities. Moreover, one may implement speciﬁc tools of integrated risk
management, such as RAROC (risk-adjusted return on capital), which
allows to check ex post whether capital (or the risk budget) allocation is
optimal or not, and which can be used for evaluation and compensation of
business units and staff. Finally, another element of the optimum is a degree
of local costly risk-mitigating measures in each of the business activities.
Integrated risk management is certainly a tough challenge for any company.
In view of its complexities and methodological problems (e.g. sub-additivity
42
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 71 ---
of risks), it will in practice always be based on a number of ‘heroic’ and
questionable assumptions in particular regarding risk factors. Moreover, it
will be opposed by business lines that would be negatively affected from
applying its conclusions.
8.2 Integrated risk management issues for public investors
For public investors, additional difﬁculties arise from the predominance
of policy goals against pure return (risk) considerations, the perceived
importance of reputation risks, the difﬁculties to derive from basic business
economics an overall risk tolerance, etc. Consider ﬁrst the three main inputs
to integrated risk management, such as applying speciﬁcally to public
investors:15
(1) Business model and ‘production function’ of the public institution
and of the relevant business lines. Public institutions have often only
a very limited number of activities which may be deemed to be of
a ‘business’ nature. One of them is the investment of ﬁnancial assets as
far as unconstrained by policy requirements.16 The overall extent of
this activity is given by the amount of funds available, i.e. there is little
perceived freedom of deciding on the overall scope of investment
activities. However, there is of course room for decisions at the sub-
business lines level, like how much to invest into which currency, what
asset types to invest in, etc. On a ﬁrst look, all this may appear to be a
relatively simple portfolio optimization problem. However if one takes
into account set-up costs per asset type and risk management activities
per asset type, the analysis has to be enriched with elements from a
more standard business decision of a corporate (or a bank), which has
to decide on what businesses to go into or to specialize into. When
making the list of a public institution’s activities to be considered in an
integrated risk management, one should also not forget the policy tasks
discussed in Section 6.
(2) Risk factors. The risk factors relevant for the public investor are mainly
the classical ﬁnancial risk factors like domestic and foreign interest rate,
spread, credit, foreign exchange rate and commodity risk. In addition,
15 See Sangmanee and Raenkhum 2000 for a ﬁrst paper on integrated central bank risk management.
16 Others might be (1) provision of payments or securities settlement systems; (2) provision or reserve management
services for other central banks or public institutions; (3) cash handling services. In any case, the correlation
structure of these other business lines with investment management by the central bank are of limited relevance such
that it is fair to analyse the investment issues separately.
43
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 72 ---
there are the idiosyncratic policy-related risk factors, such as those
described in Section 6 for central banks.
(3) Relationship between total risk budget, leveraging, capital and
reﬁnancing costs. In the case of commercial banks, a common way to
think is that for a certain business model, there is an optimal rating, e.g.
AA, which is associated with a certain probability of default. The bank
has thus to look at capital costs, and the risk–return proﬁle of business
opportunities, to come to an optimal amount of capital and activities
leading to an overall risk–return proﬁle being compatible with the
envisaged probability of default. For public investors, the ﬁrst step of
such an approach, namely to set total risks as a function of the desired
rating and the capital cost function, seems to be the most difﬁcult one.
For instance central banks have, virtually regardless of the risks in their
balance sheet, the rating of the relevant central government. Indeed,
they can normally cope with substantial negative capital for a long time,
as they should in the long run normally return to positive capital (see
Section 7). Before simply accepting an ad-hoc risk constraint, one could
aim at the following indirect approach, which relies on two assump-
tions, namely that (1) an implicit franchise capital of central banks can
be calculated and (2) that this franchise capital should correspond to
economic capital needs for ensuring the relevant sovereign issuer rating.
Franchise capital can be calculated from the discounted expected
income of a central bank due to its franchise to issue banknotes over
a certain period, say ten years. Of course, the choice of the parameters
and horizons underlying such a calculus will appear ad hoc, and it
should thus more be considered as an illustration of the issue than as an
approach to be followed.
Eventually, the company’s efﬁcient frontier needs to be matched with the
risk–return preferences of the company’s owners. For individuals, risk–
return preferences are normally derived from the concavity of their utility
function, risk aversion following from Jensen’s law. For commercial banks,
as for institutions in general, assuming a utility function would be too ad
hoc. Instead, risk–return preferences should be derived from the business
model of the company, the environment in which it operates, and prefer-
ences of stakeholders. Typical sources of risk aversion with regard to public
institution’s proﬁts may be: (i) Taking the speciﬁc perspective of the residual
claimant, the Government: The Government has an interest in the stability of
the transfer payments from the central bank for budget purposes. In par-
ticular, it will dislike the case that by surprise, the public institution’s
44
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 73 ---
payments will be zero in some year, or even more that it would have to
recapitalize the public institution. (ii) Taking the speciﬁc perspectives of the
Board of the public institution. Typically, risk aversion of companies also
stems from the proﬁt–loss asymmetries implied by a progressive taxation
schedule (as average taxes paid increase with the volatilities of proﬁts). In
the case of public institutions, a progressive proﬁt transfer function has
similar implications: losses are typically kept by the public institution, and a
small ﬁxed amount of proﬁts can be kept for some provisions or reserves,
but proﬁts in excess of some threshold are distributed fully to the Gov-
ernment. A public institution wishing to increase its capital in the wide
sense (including reserves and provisions) over time will try to ensure that it
always earns enough to accumulate capital as much as it can, but would not
care about how high its proﬁts are beyond that threshold (although it has in
practice an interest to keep the Government happy for the sake of its
independence). (iii) For companies in general, risk aversion may be implied
by Financial distress in case of large losses: liquidity costs of ﬁre asset sales,
ﬁnancing premia for replacing capital, general demotivation of stakeholders
when the probability of default increases beyond the optimum for the
business model. For public institutions, this is probably a less relevant
source of risk aversion, since ﬁnancial distress tends to remain remote.
(iv) Reputation costs being associated with large losses. This holds for any
company, but maybe even more for a public institution, for which the
public or the Government may assume that any large losses are due to
irresponsible behaviour.
As mentioned before, the relevance of reputation risks for public insti-
tutions will drive apart the apparent risk preferences of public institutions
for tasks assigned to them directly through their statutes, and indirectly
derived tasks reﬂecting a largely unconstrained choice. For the former, only
large losses affecting the Government’s ﬁnances in a substantive way should
matter and drive risk aversion, while for the latter, even very small losses are
painful. The general aversion of central banks against credit exposures
illustrates the issue: a default event affecting a corporate exposure, even
if underweighted, is perceived by central bankers to be associated with
headline risk, which is often quoted as reason to avoid such exposures. It is
not clear how to handle reputation risks in an integrated central bank
risk management framework. One could try to quantify the reputation risk
associated to the different ﬁnancial risks, and to formulate one overall risk
budget and allocate it in an optimal way. Alternatively, one could argue that
reputation risks after all cannot be quantiﬁed well and that therefore, for
45
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 74 ---
each class of risks which are homogenous in terms of reputation risk, a
separate risk budged for pure ﬁnancial risks should be set up. The ﬁnancial
risk budget should be the lower, the associated reputation risk the higher.
Finally, and this may be most realistic, reputation risk may be handled in an
ad hoc way: ﬁrst by excluding certain types of risk taking, second by keeping
some activities low scale.
Since an integrated risk management by deﬁnition aims at avoiding too
narrow optimization, it also has to take seriously the issue that public
institutions should aim at social welfare, which is not a priori equal to its
own proﬁt and loss. This caveat does not only hold in terms of expected
income, but also in terms of allocation of risk in society. For example,
central banks tend to hold ﬁxed-income portfolios with a modiﬁed duration
below the one of the ﬁxed-income market portfolio, implying that central
banks hold sub-proportionally little interest rate risk. But is this result
plausible from a social welfare optimization point of view? In view of its
substantial ﬁnancial buffers and the large other ﬁnancial risks central banks
assume easily (in particular FX risks), why would it not be expected to
behave at least like an average ﬁxed-income investor? One motivation of
risk management seems to be particularly in contradiction with social wel-
fare maximization, namely those related to effects driven by the accounting
and proﬁt sharing framework, as this often relates to zero-sum games within
the state sector.
On the basis of this, the following nine concrete commandments on
integrated risk management may be formulated for public institutions:
(1) Avoid segregating organizationally the ﬁnancial risk management of
different areas within the public institution (in the case of central banks:
domestic ﬁnancial assets, foreign reserves, monetary policy operations,
etc.) or across risk types (credit risk versus market risk). Instead, have
one central risk management unit being responsible for the consistent
analysis of all ﬁnancial risks in all areas.
(2) Establish one comprehensive handbook of risk management policies
and procedures for the public institution; as such, a summary and
overview makes the need of overall consistency obvious (apart from
being useful for documentation purposes).
(3) Draw the complete list of risk factors affecting the proﬁt and loss of the
public institution, in the short run, but also in the long run, and establish
how they affect the balance sheet and proﬁt and loss. Such a list should
contribute to avoid that important risk factors are forgotten when
46
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 75 ---
optimizing the risk–return features of the central bank’s balance sheet.
Also, it should ensure that focusing too much on the short term is
avoided.
(4) Simulate or conduct a scenario analysis on the medium- and long-run
proﬁtability and capital levels of the public institution, such as to identify
the risk factors that really matter, and to get a feeling for the risks of
having negative capital over a sustained period.
(5) Avoid too narrow, segregated risk–return optimizations, as this by
deﬁnition leads to sub-optimal results. For instance setting a risk con-
straint on a domestic ﬁxed-income portfolio leading to a low modiﬁed
duration may make little sense if actually the investment horizon is
long (because there is no reason to expect that the banknote demand
will collapse) and there is anyway considerable reinvestment risk (as
monetary policy operations are short-term operations).
(6) For the purpose of being able to measure and allocate risk consistently
across risk types and business lines, establish methods for obtaining
consistent risk measures (e.g. VaR or expected shortfall) that can be
applied to all types of ﬁnancial risks. Report regularly these risk
measures, covering comprehensively risk types and business lines, such
as to establish an awareness of the reports’ addressees regarding the
proportions between the different risks, and the need to take a
comparative perspective on their justiﬁcation.
(7) In case of an apparently distorted allocation of the risk budget (e.g. a lot
of non-remunerated exchange rate risk, little or no interest rate risk,
little or no credit risk, etc.), think carefully about what policy con-
siderations, or associated indirect risks, such as reputation risks, may
justify this. Review the outcome if no such reasons can found.
(8) Aim at deriving the concrete parameters of the risk control framework
(eligibility, limit setting formulas, valuation principles, haircuts, etc.)
on the basis of basic principles, the risk–return preferences of the
institution, and appropriate analytical methods. Do not apply without
good reasons different assumptions or methodologies to different areas
(e.g. investment operations versus monetary policy operations).
(9) When assessing the usefulness of risk-taking activities, do not only look
at beneﬁts, but also at costs, before concluding that they are beneﬁcial
in terms of risk-adjusted returns.
Implementing each of these points is certainly rewarding, and even the
attempt will probably provide useful insights.
47
Central banks and public institutions as investors

--- Página 76 ---
9. Conclusions
This chapter started by explaining why public institutions, and in particular
central banks, can be understood today also as important ﬁnancial invest-
ors: this is because for many central banks, the large share of foreign
exchange reserves is no longer expected to be used for interventions, and
because also domestic monetary policy, namely the steering of short-term
interest rates, is considered today to take place ‘at the margin’ thus not
constraining the large part of domestic ﬁnancial assets. After noting this
new characteristic of central bank as large scale, only limitedly constrained
investors, the chapter provided a broad overview of central bank investment
and risk management issues, trying to highlight in particular two aspects
often overlooked, namely (1) public institutions speciﬁcities that should not
be ignored when applying concepts from private ﬁnancial institution’s risk
management to them, and (2) issues relating to an integrated risk mana-
gement for public investors. While the main single risk management
techniques of private banks (portfolio optimization, risk measurement and
reporting through VaR, limit setting, compliance monitoring, etc.) can
normally be transferred one by one in a meaningful way to public investors,
this is less obvious for the broad framework of integrated risk management.
Ignoring e.g. central bank speciﬁcities in this area often means to optimize
in a way that is inferior when taking a comprehensive perspective. This
chapter discussed the main relating issues and proposed some tools to
address them, as the difﬁculties with integrated risk management should
never be taken as an excuse, not even to aim at such an all-encompassing
approach. Rejecting the concept means rejecting the goals of comprehen-
siveness and consistency, which cannot be right.
48
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 77 ---
2
Strategic asset allocation for
ﬁxed-income investors
Matti Koivu, Fernando Monar Lora, and Ken Nyholm
1. Introduction
The goal of strategic asset allocation (SAA) is to ﬁnd an optimal allocation
of funds across different asset classes subject to a relatively long investment
horizon. The optimal allocation of funds should always reﬂect the risk–
return preferences of an institution and the machinery underlying the
strategic asset allocation decisions should be based on a transparent and
accountable process with which such allocations can be determined and
reviewed at regular intervals. Often ‘modern portfolio theory’ is presented
following Markowitz (1959) and Sharpe (1964) in the context of the Capital
Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and mean-variance portfolio analysis as the
basic theory for how equity markets behave in equilibrium and how
investors should position themselves on the efﬁcient frontier, depending on
their risk aversion.1 This theory is central to the understanding of modern
ﬁnance and thus important for students and market practitioners alike.
However, when it comes to actual portfolio allocation decisions and the
practical implementation of portfolio allocation decisions in public and
private investment organizations the CAPM leaves, quite understandably,
many questions unanswered. It is some of these missing answers that the
present chapter aims at addressing. In doing so, the viewpoint of a strategic
investor is taken; however, elements relevant for tactical asset allocation and
portfolio managers are also touched upon. In particular, the focal point of
the exposition is that of a central bank’s reserves management. This per-
spective naturally narrows the investment universe considerably. As a con-
sequence, the following discussion focuses mainly on an investment universe
comprising ﬁxed-income securities, although credit markets are treated to
some extent and some of our remarks generalize easily.
1 See among others Ingersoll 1987; Huang and Litzenberger 1988; Campbell et al. 1997.
49

--- Página 78 ---
The main contributions of this chapter are to: (a) present a consistent
framework supporting strategic asset allocation decisions; (b) outline and
give a detailed and practitioner-oriented account for a selection of quan-
titative models that support strategic asset allocation decisions; (c) combine
the models to form an accountable framework that easily can be expanded
to include equity and other assets; and (d) show how the framework allows
for integration of credit risk and exchange rate risk.
The rest of the chapter is organized as follows. Section 2 gives a primer on
strategic asset allocation; presents a review of the theory underlying strategic
asset allocation decisions; introduces different strategic asset allocation
approaches and principles that are applied by public wealth managers; and
discusses how the theoretical asset allocation models need to be adapted to
ﬁt the particular needs of strategic investors. Section 3 describes important
components of the ECB investment process from a normative viewpoint. In
Sections 4 and 5 it is demonstrated how quantitative techniques can be used
to generate expected returns for the asset classes of interest and how the
ﬁnal asset allocation, i.e. the instrument weights, can be estimated. Section 6
shows through an illustrative example how the ECB uses these techniques,
which should neither be taken to represent concrete investment advice nor
as an ‘information package’ endorsed by the ECB.
2. A primer on strategic asset allocation
As mentioned above, the term ‘strategic asset allocation’ refers to a portfolio
that through its asset composition reﬂects the long-term risk–return pref-
erences, investment universe and general investment constraints of the
organization in question. This portfolio serves as a yard-stick for the per-
formance of the active layers in the investment process.
In the following, Section 2.1 provides an overview of the general principles
underlying strategic asset allocation methodologies, and Section 2.2 outlines
the central dimensions comprised by a strategic asset allocation framework.
Special attention is paid to methodologies that are rooted in modern port-
folio theory. As indicated in the introduction, modern portfolio theory is a
natural point of departure for any discussion and presentation of SAA
techniques; however, it is not necessarily the end goal and it does not answer
all relevant questions. Therefore, the section also contains hints on how to
build more ambitious framework speciﬁcations, including the approach
applied by the ECB, which is presented in the subsequent sections.
50
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 79 ---
2.1 General principles of SAA methodologies
It is difﬁcult to conclude that there is a uniﬁed theory for strategic asset
allocation. It seems natural to draw on ﬁnancial theory and econometric
techniques to form return expectations and other input variables necessary
for the quantitative and qualitative techniques implemented by ﬁnancial
organizations. Equally natural is the predominant reliance on portfolio
optimization techniques, either in the form of traditional Markowitz opti-
mization or more elaborate methodologies resting e.g. on Bayesian methods.
The academic community is in general relatively silent on normative
considerations regarding SAA techniques useable by public investors. For
example, a search on an online library database suggests that no more than
ﬁve to ten text books are dedicated to the topic (e.g. Leibowitz et al. 1995;
Campbell and Viceira 2002; Meucci 2005; Satchell 2007). Public organiza-
tions have ﬁlled this gap to some extent, see e.g. Bank of England (Nuge´e
2000), Danmarks Nationalbank (2004) and ECB (Bernadell et al. 2004). The
Royal Bank of Scotland has dedicated considerable efforts to study the issue
of reserve management (see Pringle and Carver 2003), and currently pub-
lishes annually a report called RBS Reserve Management Trends (e.g. Pringle
and Carver 2007). Other worth-mentioning publications about reserve and
sovereign wealth management are Scobie and Cagliesi (2000) and Johnson-
Calari and Rietveld (2007). In addition, working papers and published
research articles can be found (e.g. Claessens and Kreuser 2007), as well as
some details of the investment framework of the different central banks in
dedicated papers and in annual reports, often available through the insti-
tutional webpages. Notwithstanding this, information regarding tools and
techniques applied by public organizations as well as conceptual thoughts
on framework deﬁnitions are at best disperse, and hence no single uniﬁed
strategic asset allocation platform seems to exist.
One attempt to structure the SAA process is offered by the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). In IMF (2005) a summary of country practices is
provided together and several case studies, and IMF (2004)2 gives ‘Reserves
Management Guidelines’, comprising: (1) Management Objectives, Scope
and Coordination; (2) Transparency and Accountability; (3) Institutional
Framework; (4) Risk Management Framework; and (5) The Role of Efﬁcient
Markets. While these guidelines are formulated in very general terms and
do not make concrete recommendations, they are helpful in the sense
2 Replicated in IMF 2005, Annex 1.
51
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 80 ---
that they form a map that allows organizations to manoeuvre in the SAA
landscape and leaves the charting of the ﬁner details up to the decision
makers of the organization in question.
Another attempt to deﬁne the core principles of SAA in central banks was
presented in a survey on ‘Core principles of strategic asset allocation in the
ESCB’ conducted by the ECB among national central banks in 2006. From
this survey conclusions were drawn, which seem to be broadly in line with
the IMF guidelines. Some of these are:
 The strategic benchmark must express medium- to long-term risk return
preferences of the organization (with liquidity and security consider-
ations playing a major role in the central banks), and mimic a passive
investment strategy, while being efﬁcient enough to serve as a guide for
active investment decisions, as well as constituting a portfolio that is
easily replicable.
 The benchmark process (i.e. the tools, techniques and ideological
background of construction and rebalancing) should be transparent
and stay broadly unchanged from one year to the next, although this
form of ‘framework stability’ should not adversely affect the adoption of
new and better methodologies.
The ECB survey also detected a notable diversity regarding some central
issues of the SAA framework, as the deﬁnition and role of the benchmark
stability (meaning the stability in the key-risk measures of the benchmark
over time e.g. the stability of the modiﬁed duration of the benchmark port-
folio), the speciﬁcation of the objective function, the central risk measures and
constraints, the use of quantitative and qualitative techniques and the
importance of explicitly forward-looking methodologies.
This diversity, according to IMF (2005), is also present in e.g. the for-
mulation of the objectives of holding foreign reserves and the level of
integration of liabilities and different risks in the SAA process.
The differences in the approaches followed by the central banking
community are probably motivated by the policy and economic environ-
ment, the formulation of objectives for the portfolios, and the particular
evolution in the risk and portfolio management areas of each institution.
2.2 Evolution of SAA methodologies
Figure 2.1 aims to outline some of the most central dimensions and tech-
niques that together can constitute an SAA framework. The ﬁgure should be
read from left to right illustrating a process going from simple to complex.
52
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 81 ---
To the very left in Figure 2.1 the ‘Foundation’ is mentioned. The foun-
dation comprises (see also IMF 2004):
 the investment objectives;
 the risk–return preferences;
 the investment horizon;
 the modelling concepts.
It is important to make the formulation of the foundation as transparent as
possible and to have a clear view as to how it eventually will be implemented.
Given the objectives, the organization may choose to implement additional
constraints to ensure the liquidity of the portfolio(s), the diversiﬁcation
of the portfolio(s), and/or other more politically motivated targets such
as minimum/maximum exposures to certain asset classes. A high level of
liquidity is naturally of great importance if the portfolio serves as the basis
for potential foreign reserve interventions, but is probably less relevant if it
serves as an investment tranche, or if the funds are managed by a sovereign
wealth fund. Also, it is important to clearly delegate the responsibilities
Developing stage      Additional evolution  Further innovations
The
Foundation
Internalization
In-house developed models
View-
building
Optimization
Integration
Historical analysis
Explicitly forward-looking
Segregated Risk 
management/budgeting
Integrated FX/IR/… /
Credit Risk management/budgeting
and ALM
Markowitz
portfolio
 optimisation 
Index
Selection
Beyond Markowitz
approach
Market Index
In-house benchmarks
Simple                                                       
Complex 
… /
Early stage
Figure 2.1.
Evolution of Strategic Asset Allocation.
53
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 82 ---
within the organization, for example, who is responsible for the strategic
asset allocation decision, and who is responsible for the tactical decisions.
Furthermore, one needs to decide on the investment horizon, which
according to IMF (2004) is medium to long term. However, in practice it is
in many cases necessary to quantify the investment horizon in terms of a
given number of years, e.g. one, ﬁve or ten years, especially if an explicit
forward-looking benchmarking methodology is implemented.
The different stages or degrees of complexity of the SAA process as presented
in Figure 2.1 are labelled: ‘Internalization’, ‘View-building’, ‘Integration’ and
‘Optimization’. These dimensions are interrelated and it is not possible to
derive an exact mapping between them. For example, one organization can
prefer to internalize the SAA process, while not paying so much attention to
the level of integration of different risks. Another organization can prefer
to derive its own benchmark proposals based on state-of-the-art method-
ologies incorporating explicitly forward-looking views and integrating
different risks, but still decide to implement the benchmark through an
outsourced benchmark mandate.
The complexity chosen by a given institution for its SAA framework is
most likely inﬂuenced by institutional-speciﬁc features and country-speciﬁc
traditions, the market developments, the evolution of regulatory require-
ments, advances in academic research, what peer organizations have imple-
mented and also the natural striving for excellence. Conversely, the choice of
a less complex framework can be motivated by the lack of resources, the price
of complexity in terms of development and communication requirements,
and a desire to obtain framework stability.
2.2.1 Internalization of the SAA process
The dimension called ‘Internalization’ refers to whether the SAA process is
outsourced or whether in-house resources are dedicated to the establish-
ment of quantitative and qualitative tools facilitating SAA proposals to be
generated internally within the organization. This is a fundamental question
without an easy answer. If an external benchmark is chosen it is often
difﬁcult for it to fully reﬂect the speciﬁcities of the organization as deﬁned
under the ‘Foundation’. In addition, resources still need to be allocated
in-house to the monitoring of investment managers and performance
evaluation. Notwithstanding this, outsourcing the benchmark composition
activities is surely less resource intensive compared to a situation where the
benchmarking process is internalized. However, a number of beneﬁts follow
from building strategic benchmark competences in-house. For instance, it
54
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 83 ---
can be argued that internally constructed benchmarks may have a second-
order positive effect on the organization as a whole by increasing the
knowledge and technical skills of staff and decision makers. Other, perhaps
more obvious advantages of internally built benchmarks, are, among other
things, that they can be tailored to fully match the requirements of the
organization in terms of investment universe, investment horizon, fulﬁl-
ment of risk constraints and idiosyncratic investment objectives, and they
facilitate full replicability by the active layers.
Addressing a ﬁxed-income investment universe, a strategic benchmark
portfolio can either be constructed as a combination of existing indices
published by investment banks and other index providers, or it can be
generated in-house and tailored speciﬁcally to the preferences of senior
management. A general trade-off exists between these two choices: on the
one hand, a combination of external indices can easily be made to match the
institution’s target for modiﬁed duration, Value at Risk (VaR) or whichever
summary risk statistic the organization relies on, without employing sig-
niﬁcant in-house resources. However, such a non-tailored benchmark
may not fully reﬂect the investment universe of the organization – an issue
of particular importance to central banks. Some external providers may
offer customized benchmarks as a solution for this problem. However,
external benchmarks often contain a high number of different bonds which
makes replication by the active layers on a bond-by-bond basis difﬁcult or
even impossible. This is the case even if the individual bond weights are
known on a daily basis. In effect, if an external benchmark is used, the
active layers can only go neutral against the benchmark by implementing
a modiﬁed duration and convexity approximation to the benchmark.
Such hedges are rarely perfect, and thus a certain unknown amount of
residual risk is borne, even when a manager wants to be neutral. Imperfect
hedging is also an issue when dealing with synthetic benchmarks. On the
other hand, by using in-house resources, a tailor-made index can be made
to match fully the preferences of senior management while using instru-
ments comprised by the particular investment universe of the organization
in a number that allows for bond-by-bond replication. Whether the
active management of the portfolios is outsourced or kept in-house is an
important question to be considered when deciding on making or buying,
since with external managers the in-house maintenance of this benchmark
will not be as operative as the use of external benchmarks, while the
appropriate selection of the benchmark and the risk budgets will probably
be even more important.
55
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 84 ---
2.2.2 Building views into the SAA framework
As Figure 2.1 further indicates, once the decision has been made to con-
struct internal benchmarks, the level of technical sophistication has to be
decided upon. In practice there are naturally no hard limits between
modelling philosophies, however the ﬁgure suggests separating the tech-
nical level required by decision support frameworks on the basis of whether
pure historical analyses are performed or whether an explicit forward-
looking approach is implemented. The dimension labelled ‘View-building’
has then an obvious impact on the rest of the dimensions, since the
incorporation of explicit views requires a certain amount of methodological
sophistication. While a historical analysis could rely on expected returns
generated as a simple average of observed historical yields for the relevant
investment universe, an explicit forward-looking methodology for gener-
ating expected returns would probably require a forecasting model of
some sort.
This is an issue that is often passed over too easily in ﬁnancial textbooks.
A standard textbook treatment of portfolio theory will most likely focus on
the mathematical underpinnings and be relatively silent on how input
parameters should be generated. In any practical implementation, while the
mathematics should be understood and correctly applied, the input par-
ameter values are hugely important. For example, when generating expected
returns as input for the asset allocation process it is necessary to tackle the
issue of the investment horizon also. That is, how long a future time period
do the returns apply to? A usual solution is to calculate the expected returns
from a given portion of historical data collected in the database available to
the analyst. Such an approach naturally hinges on the assumption that the
future period under investigation is identical in distribution to past
observed data. This may be reasonable if the investment horizon tends to
inﬁnity and the historical data covers a long enough time period. Otherwise,
it may be necessary to build a return projection model, for example relying
on market consensus expectations to factors that correlate with the returns
of interest.
It is worth emphasizing that any sort of view formation has a translation
into an explicitly forward-looking methodology, since the assumptions
regarding the expected returns imply a closed subset of evolutions for the
yield curves, exchange rates and asset prices. Thus, while an explicitly for-
ward-looking methodology aims to offer more plausible distributions of
returns given the current and projected economic environment (conditional
56
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 85 ---
projections), a historical analysis would imply projections of the variables,
which may be consistent with past observations, but will rarely ﬁt into the
current or expected future economic environment. Other approaches are
also sometimes presented as being no-view or no forward-looking, as the
naı¨ve no-change projections for the yield curve (based on the assumption of
the yields following a random-walk process), but they still rely on strong
assumptions (no-change) regarding the future evolution of the variables,
and thus, cannot be seen as no-view forecasts, but rather as strong-view
forecasts.
Some of the strategies for the formation of views rely on the evolution of
prices implied by the current prices (and rates), other strategies link the
expected evolution of the asset prices to the consensus expectations on some
variables (typically macroeconomic variables), while others rely on the
notion of market equilibrium. An evolved approach for integrating views in
the asset allocation framework consists in ‘mixing’ some subjective or
model-based priors with historical or market equilibrium based anchors
(see. e.g. Black and Litterman 1992).
Further innovations regarding the formation of views may serve the
purpose of adapting an explicit forward-looking approach to provide
additional information to the decision-making bodies of the organization in
question. This can be done, for instance, including risk-neutral or arbitrage-
free considerations in the framework to consistently model spreads and
credit risk or the term-structure of interest rates.
2.2.3 Integration of different risks
This dimension relates to whether liabilities are modelled explicitly in an
asset-liability management (ALM) framework, and to what extent different
risk sources (e.g. currency, interest rate and credit risk) and portfolios are
modelled separately or jointly.
Regarding the level of integration of different risks and portfolios, typ-
ically only market risk, and sometimes only interest rate risk, is modelled in
the SAA framework, whereas other types of risks, such as liquidity and
credit risk, are mainly taken into account by imposing constraints on the
portfolio optimization problem. This is quite often also the case for exchange
rate risk, since signiﬁcant uncertainties prevail when jointly modelling of
currency and interest rate risk, and because the currency distribution is
typically seen as a policy decision. As a result, many central banks look at
different SAA problems for different portfolios typically split on the basis of
57
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 86 ---
different objectives (e.g. Hong Kong SAR Backing portfolio vs. Investment
portfolio) or different currencies (e.g. ECB: EUR investment portfolio and
USD and JPY foreign reserves portfolios).
Regarding the use of ALM approaches, according to IMF (2005), many
central banks (including those of Canada, New Zealand and the United
Kingdom) apply some sort of ALM for their foreign reserves. It is worth
mentioning that, depending on what is meant by the term ‘liabilities’,
completely different approaches can be classiﬁed under the heading
ALM.3
Explicitly forward-looking simulation-based approaches as the one pre-
sented in the following sections of this chapter may integrate quite easily
different risks and liabilities.
2.2.4 Portfolio optimization: Markowitz and beyond4
The last dimension seen in Figure 2.1 is ‘Optimization’. To some extent this
dimension relies on the choices made for the other dimensions, and on the
way the overall SAA problem is formulated; in particular it depends on the
general speciﬁcation of the asset allocation framework, such as the central
risk measures used and the speciﬁed objective function. The ﬁrst stage
of development regarding this dimension would comprise basic ‘index
selection’, possibly based on qualitative or historical analysis. Modern
portfolio theory represents a further level of complexity in comparison to
index selection.
Regardless of whether an in-house or an external benchmark is used, any
organization needs a decision support framework that is consistent,
accountable and that complies reasonably well with up-to-date ﬁnancial
modelling methods and techniques. A natural starting point for such a
framework is the mean-variance portfolio theory, as developed by Marko-
witz, Sharpe, Lintner and Mossin, in combination with a methodology for
how to generate expected returns and risk estimates for the relevant
investment universe, and an appropriately formulated utility function.
Section 4 details different methods for generating expected returns and
accompanying risks for a ﬁxed-income investment universe that could ﬁt in
a mean-variance formulation of the SAA problem.
Often, in textbooks treating portfolio theory, a picture similar to Figure 2.2
is used to illustrate the optimal trade-off between risk and return and thus
3 An example of an ALM framework can be found in Claessens and Kreuser (2007).
4 This section draws on material from Huang and Litzenberger (1988).
58
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 87 ---
how an investor should position themself. The concave curve in the graph is
the ‘efﬁcient frontier’, which traces all mean-variance efﬁcient portfolios.
In this context, efﬁciency refers to the fact that these portfolios are the ones
that offer the highest level of expected return for a given level of risk, and
the lowest level of risk for a given level of return. If an asset can be found
which is risk-less, i.e. uncorrelated with the rest of the assets in the
investment universe the linear line in Figure 2.2 can be generated. This line
is also referred to as the Capital Market Line (CML). In the case that a risk-
less asset exists and is part of the investment universe, a rational investor
will choose a portfolio on the CML. Such a portfolio can be generated as a
linear combination of the portfolio M (the market portfolio) and the
risk-less asset or risk-free rate (rf ) at any point along the line connecting
rf and M, and beyond M in the case the portfolio is levered and it is possible
to borrow at rf, so as to meet the preferences of the investor.
Strategic (as well as tactical) asset allocation would be easy if the real world
was adequately reﬂected by Figure 2.2. Strategic asset allocation would
amount to choosing a point on M that matches the institution’s risk–return
preferences and buy M and the risk-less bond in corresponding amounts.
CML
Risk
(Volatility)
E[r]
Efficient frontier
U
Uj
rf
M
Uk
rf
Figure 2.2
The efﬁcient frontier.
59
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 88 ---
As for tactical asset allocation: there would be none, if the economy is in
equilibrium.
A stylized example can be used to illustrate the calculations needed to derive
the efﬁcient frontier as shown in Figure 2.2. It should be mentioned that
while these calculations are not used directly in the technical part of the
chapter presented in the following sections, they do constitute a cornerstone of
the asset allocation theory. In the following sections we show how this
foundation can be adapted in a simulation-based exercise allowing for non-
normal return distributions and further relaxation of underlying assumptions.
There are two basic inputs to the investment process as illustrated in the
ﬁgures above. The ﬁrst is the expected portfolio return, deﬁned as:
E½rðpÞ ¼ w0  r
where p refers to a given portfolio deﬁned by the portfolio weights collected
in the vector w. The variable r is a vector collecting the expected returns for
the individual assets comprised by the investment universe, and 0 refers to
the matrix operation ‘transpose’. The variance of the returns for portfolio p
can then be calculated by:
Var½rðpÞ ¼ w0  C  w
where C is the covariance matrix of the assets comprised by the investment
universe. The principle of minimizing risk for a given level of expected
return, used in the above ﬁgures to derive the efﬁcient frontier, can be
expressed as a mathematical minimization problem:
min
Var½rðpÞ ¼ 1=2  w0  C  w
st
w0  1 ¼ 1
w0  r ¼ rðpÞ
The constant ‘1/2’ in the objective function is added for convenience.
Adding a constant to the objective function will not change results since
the optimal parameter values are found where the ﬁrst derivative of the
objective function equals zero, with respect to each of the variables. It is
added because the square of the portfolio weights enter the objective func-
tion, and once we differentiate with respect to the weights the one-half will
neutralize the exponents that follow from the squaring of this variable.5
5 If the weights were not vectors, the first derivative of the objective function would yield d(w2*c)/dw ¼ 2*w*c.
60
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 89 ---
The ﬁrst constraint ensures that the portfolio weights sum to unity; the
variable 1 represents a vector of ones having the same dimension as w. This
constraint is also referred to as the full investment constraint. The second
constraint speciﬁes the level of expected return for which the variance
should be minimized. By varying r(p) we can see how the whole efﬁcient
frontier can be traced out.
We now proceed in a standard way by constructing the Lagrange function
by substituting the constraints into the objective function:
min
Lfw; f ; gg ¼ 1=2  w0  C  w þ f  ðrðpÞ  w0  rÞ þ g  ð1  w0  1Þ
The solution to the Lagrange function is found by taking the ﬁrst derivative
with respect to each of the parameters, set the derivative equal to zero and
solve for the parameter of interest. There are three parameters {w,f,g}. Let
d denote the partial derivative, then:
dL=dw ¼ C  w  f  r  g  1 ¼ 0
dL=df ¼ rðpÞ  w0  r ¼ 0
dL=dg ¼ 1  w0  1 ¼ 0
The system above constitutes n þ 2 equations with n þ 2 unknowns, if there
are n assets in the eligible investment universe. Although the n asset returns
may be correlated (this is in particular the case for a ﬁxed-income invest-
ment universe), none of them can be perfectly correlated.6 Because of this
C has full rank and is thus invertible. This leads to a solution for the ﬁrst of
the equations above:
C  w  f  r  g  1 ¼ 0
)
w ¼ f  ðC1  rÞ þ g  ðC1  1Þ
To make this equation operational we need to know the values of f and g.
These can be derived from the last two derivatives of the Lagrange function
i.e. dL/df and dL/dg. To this end it is helpful to deﬁne the following entities:
X ¼ r0  C1  r
Y ¼ r0  C1  1 ¼ 10  C1  r
Z ¼ 10  C1  1
D ¼ X  Z  Y 2
6 If two assets were perfectly correlated they would be indistinguishable in financial terms and would hence not trade as
separate entities.
61
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 90 ---
We now proceed by pre-multiplying the above solution for w by r0 and 10.
r0  w ¼ f  ðr0  C1  rÞ þ g  ðr0  C1  1Þ
) rðpÞ ¼ f  X þ g  Y
and
10  w ¼ f  ð10  C1  rÞ þ g  ð10  C1  1Þ
)
1 ¼ f  Y þ g  Z
Collecting the derived expressions above gives a system of two equations
with two unknowns:
rðpÞ
1


¼
X
Y
Y
Z



f
g


which can be solved by Cramer’s rule. So:
f ¼
det rðpÞ
Y
1
Z


det X
Y
Y
Z

 ¼ rðpÞ  Z  1  Y
X  Z  Y 2
¼ Z  rðpÞ  Y
D
g ¼
det X
rðpÞ
Y
1


det X
Y
Y
Z

 ¼ X  1  Y  rðpÞ
X  Z  Y 2
¼ X  Y  rðpÞ
D
These solutions for f and g can be substituted into the expression for the
weights from above:
w
¼ f  ðC1  rÞ þ g  ðC1  1Þ
) w ¼ Z  ðrðpÞ=DÞ  ðC1  rÞ þ X  ðY  rðpÞ=DÞ  ðC1  1Þ
) w ¼ u þ p  rðpÞ
where
u ¼ ð1=DÞ  ðX  C1  1  Y  C1  rÞ
p ¼ ð1=DÞ  ðZ  C1  r  Y  C1  1Þ
This shows that the set of weights that span all efﬁcient frontier portfolios
can be calculated by varying r(p), if one believes the assumptions as outlined
above.
62
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 91 ---
However, in practice the situation is different from what is assumed in
Figure 2.2. Below is a list some of the differences between theory and
practice:
A. The ﬁnancial markets are probably never in equilibrium, in the sense
assumed in the ﬁgure above. If equilibrium emerges then there will be
no trading because all agents agree on the pricing of the instruments.
A casual look on Bloomberg suggests that trading commences continu-
ously. This means that while equilibrium never materializes the collected
trading of the market is all the time striving to reach equilibrium but is
faced by a perpetual ﬂow of new information that has to be interpreted
and translated into monetary terms.
B. The theory underlying Figure 2.2 assumes that agents in the economy
only are concerned with two properties of the traded assets, namely their
expected return and risk measured by the standard deviation. In reality,
ﬁnancial agents are concerned about other features of returns as well: for
example, the VaR or the Conditional VaR7 (CVaR) on the basis of the
empirical return distribution of individual instruments and portfolios,
draw-down risk and liquidity risk, to name a few. Actually, the increasing
popularity of tail-risk measures (VaR, CVaR) as opposed to volatility is
not only the logical consequence of the risk aversion of some institutions,
but it is also reinforced by its use in banking regulation and supervision.
C. In reality there does not exist one single risk-free rate. The ‘risk-freeness’
depends on the investment horizon. For example, a short investment
horizon can warrant the use of a short-term government bond as the
risk-free rate, while a longer investment horizon warrants the use of a
long-term inﬂation-linked bond as the risk-free rate.
D. Utility functions are not as easily quantiﬁed and homogenous across
investors as the ﬁgure suggests. Some investors cannot even write down
explicitly their utility function yet plot it in a two-dimensional diagram.
E. Investors may not have homogenous expectations to the asset returns.
F. All investors do not have the same one-period investment horizon as is
suggested by the ﬁgure: the length of investment horizons differ quite
often, and so does the frequency of rebalancing and benchmark review,
i.e. the number of periods to consider in a multi-period optimization.
G. The investment universe is not deﬁned similarly for all investors, e.g.
ﬁxed-income managers do not invest in equities. Hence, for ﬁxed-income
7 Conditional Value-at-Risk is also known as Expected Shortfall.
63
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 92 ---
investors Figure 2.2 represents a bond universe. Even within a bond
investment universe investors are diverse. For example, central banks
can often invest only in highly rated government bonds and are
generally restricted when it comes to investments into lower credit
grade bonds.
H. Not all investors are allowed to engage in short selling.
I. Return distributions of individual instruments and portfolios are not
necessarily normally distributed as assumed above. For example, given
that nominal yields are constrained at zero, i.e. nominal yield cannot be
negative, the bond return distributions calculated in low yield environ-
ments must exhibit a certain degree of skewness. This phenomenon also
generally pertains to return distributions of instruments having short
time-to-maturity, on account of the pull-to-par effect, even when yields
are at normal levels.
Nevertheless, modern portfolio theory serves as a very good frame of
thought and can help shape and stream the investment process. Below,
more details are presented on how the mindset of the efﬁcient frontier can
be applied to a ﬁxed-income investment universe. This will also serve as
background for the material presented in the technical sections of the
chapter.
Figure 2.3 shows an adapted version of Figure 2.2 by addressing some of
the caveats mentioned above. In particular, the risk-free rate has been
deleted following (C) and an additional line representing a VaR constraint
has been added. A utility function with such a constraint can be integrated
into the investment process by specifying that portfolios are valid for
investment as long as their VaR return is above zero.8 Naturally, other
minimum return levels can be imagined, for the purpose of this example, a
threshold value of zero is used. In Figure 2.3 it is further assumed that
individual m aims to maximize expected return and thus chooses portfolio Z.
The dashed line in the ﬁrst graph represents the VaR constraint, calculated
according to:
VaRðkÞ ¼ E½rðkÞ  N1ðaÞ  rðkÞ
8 In future references to VaR (and CVaR) in this chapter, a positive figure will represent expected gains at the specified
confidence level, while a negative figure will represent expected losses. This interpretation of VaR is better defined by
the expression VaR return or return on the tail, since VaR as the well-known risk measure is always presented as a
positive number measuring losses.
64
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 93 ---
where k counts portfolios on the efﬁcient frontier, VaR is the Value-at-Risk
return, E[r] is the expected return, r is the standard deviation and N 1(a)
is the inverse cumulative standard normal distribution at conﬁdence level a.
An additional line (IsoVaR) has been added representing all the different
combinations of return and volatility yielding the same VaR for a given
conﬁdence level a. Combinations yielding a higher VaR will fall to the left of
the IsoVaR, and those yielding a lower VaR will fall to the right. The IsoVaR
line, for a VaR with value zero, is deﬁned by the straight line:
E½r ¼ N1ðaÞ  r
To maximize the expected utility, and assuming at least some part of the
efﬁcient frontier lies in the feasible area falling to the left or over the IsoVaR
line, individual m will choose the feasible portfolio yielding a higher
expected return. When facing a ‘normal’ efﬁcient frontier, as the one pre-
sented in the graph, this portfolio will be determined by the higher inter-
section of the IsoVaR and the efﬁcient frontier line. The utility of individuals
j, k and m (Uj, Uk and Um) are also shown in Figure 2.3.
Risk
(Volatility)
E[r]
Efficient frontier
(VaR) constraint
Optimal portfolio for individual m
Z
IsoVaR(a)=0
Uk
Uj
Um
Feasible region
Figure 2.3
Adapted efﬁcient frontier and VaR constraint.
65
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 94 ---
It can be argued9 that in a CAPM world where individuals have well-
behaved utility functions (i.e. complete, reﬂexive, transitive, monotone,
convex and continuous indifference curves, as those drawn for individuals
j and k), the inclusion of a VaR constraint may result in the selection of sub-
optimal portfolios, and thus, that the VaR constraint may have a shadow-
cost. Nevertheless, such utility functions are not as easily quantiﬁed and are
probably not homogenous across investors. Thus, the choice of a VaR
constraint for an expected return maximization strategy does not have to be
seen as a costly restriction preventing the achievement of an optimal allo-
cation in relation to a hypothetical standard investor exhibiting a well-
behaved utility function. Rather, it should be seen as a clear speciﬁcation of a
discontinuous utility function for a non-standard investor, who is con-
cerned about tail risk instead of volatility.
The risk–return space for this investor could be better represented by
Figure 2.4, in which the VaR return does not necessarily need to be derived
parametrically under the normality assumption, which has been pointed out
E[r]
VaR (Losses)
Mean-VaR
Efficient frontier
VaR=0
Max feasible E(r) portfolio 
Z
VaR (Gains)
Feasible region
Um
Figure 2.4
Efﬁcient frontier in E[r]–VaR space.
9 See e.g. Sentana 2003.
66
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 95 ---
as one of the weaknesses of the Markowitz theory, but can represent the
empirical distribution observed in historical data or obtained via simula-
tion, as in the framework to be presented in the following sections. It can be
seen that the relevant risk–return space for this sort of investor is not the
traditional mean-variance space, but rather a mean-VaR/shortfall space.
Further criticism has been raised against optimization with a VaR-based
constraint or objective function regarding the fact that portfolios optimized
using the historically observed empirical distribution (historical VaR) overﬁt
the data, but do not perform so well out-of-sample. A simulation-based
approach relying on the consistent risk measure Conditional VaR (see Pﬂug
2000) is presented below to illustrate how potentially one can to overcome
these problems.
A problem that may appear when using a VaR/shortfall approach is the
unfeasibility of the whole efﬁcient frontier for a given (C)VaR10 constraint,
due to special market conditions, the inclusion of harder constraints or the
integration of different risks in the optimization exercise. To solve this
problem, the (C)VaR constraint could be speciﬁed using a different conﬁ-
dence level, or an alternative approach based on the maximization of the
(C)VaR return of the portfolio for the selected conﬁdence level could
be used.
A utility function corresponding to a general VaR/shortfall approach
based on the maximization of return subject to a (C)VaR constraint when
the efﬁcient frontier is feasible, or the maximization of the (C)VaR in other
case, could be deﬁned as a discontinuous function of the form:
U ¼ uðr; ðCÞVaRðaÞÞ
uðr; ðCÞVaRÞ ¼
r; if ðCÞVaRðaÞ  0
ðCÞVaR; if ðCÞVaRðaÞ<0

This sort of utility function corresponds to an investor who uses a certain
threshold (risk budget) to consider risk exposures as acceptable or
unacceptable, and consequently behave as a risk-neutral or extremely risk-
averse investor. Such an approach will be developed in Section 5 of this
chapter, due to its widespread use in the central banking community and
10 In the shortfall approach presented in the following sections, CVaR will be used as a more appropriate risk-measure,
although its interpretation in terms of regular VaR will also be shown. Consequently, we have opted for presenting a
general formulation in which the expression (C)VaR can refer to either the VaR or the CVaR.
67
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 96 ---
since it corresponds to the ECB speciﬁcation of the portfolio optimization
problem, as shown in Section 6.
Other problems may sometimes be encountered when using the Markowitz
portfolio optimization model in practice (see e.g. Scherer 2002). Since
Markowitz optimization relies only on expected returns and the covariance
of returns, it is possible to ﬁnd optimal allocations that are counterintuitive
by reﬂecting disproportionally high weightings to only a few of the assets
comprised by the eligible investment universe. This problem is sometimes
referred to as ‘corner solutions’ and will materialize more often the higher
the correlation is among the assets, and the more similar with respect to risk
the assets are. Corner solutions are difﬁcult to handle in the context of SAA,
and are also a problem when using other methodologies. Often it is
desirable that the optimal allocation has funds smoothly distributed among
the asset classes comprised by the eligible investment universe. This is
helpful to avoid unnecessary transaction costs when the portfolio is reop-
timized on an e.g. annual basis and also in the context of the regular
maintenance of the benchmark between the regular review dates. In add-
ition, a central ﬁnancial principle is that of diversiﬁcation, which corner-
solution portfolios by deﬁnition violate. Traditionally this problem has been
addressed through the imposition of minimum holdings for the different
modelled assets, ideally based on some transparent and theoretically
appealing rule as the use of relative market capitalization weights for
imposing these constraints. However, it is also possible to remedy the corner-
solution issue by using e.g. resampling techniques (see e.g. Michaud 1989;
Michaud 1998) or Bayesian techniques and shrinkage methods (see e.g. Black
and Litterman 1992).
3. Components of the ECB investment process
Needless to say, it is a complicated task to outline a general framework
underlying SAA decisions, and it is even more difﬁcult to ﬁll the framework
with quantitative techniques that can produce output relevant to decision
makers. Regardless of how such a framework is structured, it will always
hinge on a number of central assumptions. In the following we build on the
general principles for asset allocation in central banks as suggested by
Bernadell et al. (2004) and IMF (2004). Although some of these principles
have already been presented in Section 2, this exposition is slightly more
speciﬁc and also more detailed, presenting in a normative fashion a ﬂexible
68
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 97 ---
approach to the investment process, as the one applied by the ECB. In
addition, some guiding principles that may serve as a compass for organ-
izations that are in the process of designing or revising their SAA setup are
derived.
Bernadell et al. (2004) mention the importance of the asset allocation
process being framed by an appropriate governance structure, in particular,
a three-layer structure is suggested comprising (a) an oversight committee:
the strategic level; (b) an investment committee: the tactical level and (c) the
portfolio managers. Bernadell et al. emphasize that such a multilayer gov-
ernance structure efﬁciently support an active investment style where the
oversight committee sets the long-term investment strategy in accordance
with the risk–return preferences of the organization; the investment com-
mittee is responsible for the medium-term investment decisions, i.e. striving
to exploit medium-term market movements not foreseen by the strategic
benchmark; and ﬁnally, it is the portfolio managers mandate to outperform
the tactical benchmark by using superior short-term analysis skills and to
exploit information that is not taken into account at the tactical level.
Figure 2.5 aims at further expounding the governance structure outlined
above. Two dimensions of the investment process are speciﬁed: ﬁrstly, the
three-layer management structure comprising the strategic benchmark,
where attention is given to appropriate loading on risk factors (beta
selection), the tactical benchmark and the portfolio managers, which both
aims at generating portfolio outperformance by searching for and imple-
menting alpha strategies. It is indicated in Figure 2.5 that risk budgets are
allocated to the individual active levels. A guiding principle for the alloca-
tion of such risk budgets is the organization’s overall risk appetite towards
risk budget
risk budget
Investment Process
Strategic benchmark
Tactical benchmark
Portfolio managers
Horizon
Longer term
Medium term
Short term
Objective
Translate risk return 
preferences into an 
actual asset allocation
Generate 
outperformance
Generate 
outperformance
Information content
Public information
Market seasonalities
Daily market 
sentiment
Responsibility
Decision making bodies
Investment committee
Traders
Methodology
Model based, forward 
looking
Model based, forward 
looking
Trader views
Figure 2.5
Components of an investment process.
69
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 98 ---
active asset management and the trust it places in the active layers’ ability to
generate outperformance. Based on these considerations an overall risk
budget is allocated to the tactical benchmark and the portfolio managers
in sum. The subdivision of the overall limit between the two active layers
must be based on the relative expected value added by each layer, i.e. on
each layer’s ability to generate performance on a risk-adjusted basis.11
Secondly, some important dimensions of the investment process are out-
lined; these are: investment horizon, investment objective(s), information
content, responsibility and methodology. Each of these dimensions is brieﬂy
described below for each of the three layers that form the governance
structure.
The investment horizon is tied to the benchmark revision frequency. In
the above ﬁgure, it is stated that the investment horizon for the SAA should
be relatively long reﬂecting the strategic orientation of this layer. While it
may depend on the view of the organization in question one can at least say
that the investment horizon should be longer for the strategic layer than for
the tactical layers. Furthermore, investment banks will probably have a
shorter strategic horizon than a central bank. Taking the case of a central
bank, it may be an aim to establish a strategic portfolio that ‘sees through
the cycle’, which implies that the investment horizon probably should be
longer than six months, since this is the shortest historical period classiﬁed
by the NBER as a recession (in the US). Practical considerations may favour
an investment horizon that is one, two, ﬁve or ten years. Depending on the
eligible asset universe a revision frequency can be chosen as regular (or
irregular) ﬁx points at which it is analysed whether the previously chosen
asset allocation still meets the overall risk–return preferences as deﬁned by
the decision-making bodies of the institution.
The greater the information ﬂow to the relevant market segment on
which the strategic allocation is deﬁned, and the tighter the deviation bands
between the determined risk–return preferences and the actual strategic
allocation are, the more often the benchmark should be reviewed. If, on the
one hand, the investment universe comprises plain vanilla ﬁxed-income
products, as it may be the case for central bank’s intervention portfolios, an
annual revision frequency may be appropriate. If, on the other hand, the
portfolio serves as a store of national wealth, and the investment universe
for this or other reasons is broader and comprise assets where new
11 Naturally, depending on the institution in question, the allocated risk budget may also depend to a smaller or larger
extent on political considerations.
70
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 99 ---
information is generated more frequently than it is the case for government
bonds, it is probably necessarily to revisit the portfolio allocation more
often than annually.
The objective for the three individual layers of the investment process can
be seen in the context of an asset pricing model, for example the CAPM or
multi-factor representations such as the Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT).
It seems reasonable and intuitive that the strategic level, which accounts for
the long-term risk return preferences of the organization, translates these
risk–return preferences into an actual portfolio allocation through the use
of an appropriate modelling framework. In the context of the CAPM/APT
this means that the strategic benchmark is responsible for the overall
loading on the market risk factors, in other words the selection of beta. This
implies that the strategic benchmark functions as ‘the market risk-neutral
portfolio’ for the active layers and as such provides an allocation that active
management can resort to in the absence of active views; reciprocally, the
strategic benchmark serves a role as a yardstick for active management by
providing a ‘market allocation’ against which the performance of active
layers are measured. It follows indirectly from this objective that the infor-
mation content that feeds into the decision-making process for the strategic
layer is publicly available information and that the aim of the strategic
allocation is not to beat the market in any sense, but rather to track market
evolutions in an optimal way, paying due attention to the policy objectives
as speciﬁed by the decision makers of the organization who, as shown in
Figure 2.5, are responsibility for the strategic level.
It is the responsibility of the senior management to decide the utility
function and the policy constraints that together form the SAA, however,
the footwork of the benchmark proposals should be prepared by an entity
that is organizationally separated from the active layers i.e. the tactical
benchmark and the portfolio managers. Since risk management tradition-
ally is responsible for risk compliance monitoring and performance evalu-
ation of the active layers of the investment process, it is natural that the
framework development, analysis and implementation of the strategic
benchmark process rests with risk management. This would close the ‘food
chain’ of asset allocation by placing risk management at the top, via its role
to formulate the strategic benchmark proposals, and at the bottom, via its
risk monitoring and compliance roles.
To fulﬁl its role in the organization it is seen as crucial that the entity
responsible for the methodologies which translate the long-term risk pref-
erences into a de facto replicable portfolio allocation is organizationally
71
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 100 ---
separated from the active layers and is ensured a direct and uninterrupted
reporting line to senior management. Otherwise, it is very difﬁcult to
establish an accountable and transparent framework and to gain trust and
recognition among external economic counterparties as well as the general
public.
Another issue that ties in with the importance of accountability in the
SAA process is the use of a model-based decision support framework.
Rather than making long-term investment decisions based on intuition
alone, it is emphasized in Figure 2.5 that the framework in place for the
strategic benchmarking should be model based and forward looking. In this
context ‘model based’ need not to be taken too literally: it simply indicates
the need to formalize (and document) the details surrounding the bench-
mark process. This should facilitate easy communication of the benchmark
process inside the organization and to external parties. In addition, it builds
analysis capabilities on all involved levels of the organization and helps the
understanding of the causal relationships within the sub-section of the
ﬁnancial market upon which the eligible investment universe is deﬁned.
Needless to say, the actual complexity of the economic, ﬁnancial and econo-
metric models that are applied to assist the strategic benchmark decisions
should be chosen to ﬁt the organization in question.
To be ‘forward looking’ or, even better, ‘explicitly forward looking’ refers
to the importance of relying on expectations to the future when deciding on
long-term asset allocations.
The remaining sections of Figure 2.5 that concern the tactical benchmark
and the portfolio managers can be presented in a way similar to the
exposition above for the strategic level. However, it is beyond the scope of
the present chapter to go into detail with these layers of the investment
process given the title of the chapter and its focus on SAA.
As mentioned above, the overall responsibility for SAA rests with the
senior management, however, the day-to-day development work on the
decision support framework and the preparation of the regular optimal
asset allocation reviews should be allocated to a separate unit (e.g. the risk
management division). Within the segregation of labour, senior manage-
ment will decide on the acceptable level of risk to be assumed by the
benchmark and otherwise stipulate the relevant policy requirements, while
the unit in charge of the day-to-day benchmark process work will devise a
framework that meets the speciﬁed policy requirements. Figure 2.6 illus-
trates such an approach and also some of the relevant policy dimensions to
72
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 101 ---
decide on: in the ﬁrst part of the ﬁgure these high-level policy requirements
are illustrated as boxes. These are:
(a) risk–return preferences or put differently, the utility function to be
applied;
(b) which modelling philosophy to base the SAA decisions on;
(c) which investment horizon and revision frequency to use;
(d) what the objectives for holding reserves are – if it is a pure intervention
portfolio then security and liquidity may be overriding principles, while
reserves held as a store of national wealth may induce less strict
liquidity and security requirements;
(e) it has to be decided how the responsibility for the organization’s asset
allocation decisions should be allocated i.e. who is responsible for the
strategic and tactical layers in the investment chain;
(f) which information content is assumed to feed into the investment
decisions at the various levels of the investment process, e.g. whether it
Policy Requirements and Objectives
Revision frequency
Modelling philosophy
Risk and return
preferences
Assumed information
content
Delegation of
responsibilities
Objectives for the
portfolio holdings
Investment horizon
Investment constraints
Investment universe
Investment Process Tools
Data
Yield curve framework
Portfolio optimiser
Risk model
Exchange rate
modeller
Yield / prices
Macro data
Exchange rates
Returns
Uncover historical
relationships between
variables by the use of
models – facilitating
model-based
projections
Figure 2.6
The overall policy structure of the investment process.
73
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 102 ---
is appropriate that the strategic level only is based on publicly available
information and what ‘private’ information is assumed to enter at the
tactical levels;
(g) related to the ‘objective for holding reserves’ the eligible investment
universe needs to be deﬁned as well as the applicable investment
constraints. If for example, the objective is purely intervention based it
is likely that the investment universe will be more restrictive than in
other cases; likewise the investment constraints will be affected by this.
The second part of Figure 2.6 illustrates the translation of the policy
requirements into an accountable, efﬁcient and workable set of models that
together serve the role as a decision support framework. In order to produce
the output requested by senior management a set of input data should also
be chosen. These two components: models on the one hand and data on the
other hand, as well as their interplay, is illustrated in the lower part of the
ﬁgure. To the left in the ﬁgure the necessary building blocks are illustrated
and exempliﬁed by:
(a) an underlying yield curve model to facilitate the modelling of interest
rates for different maturities and credit rating segments comprised by
the eligible/potential investment universe, which can be extended to
integrate the modelling of credit risk;
(b) a risk model that can be used to generate and simulate risk premia for
equities and other instruments that fall outside the yield curve model
mentioned in (a);
(c) a module to integrate exchange rates into the evolution of interest rates
and equity returns in order to facilitate consistent calculation of returns
in a common currency;
(d) a portfolio optimization module that serves the purpose of tying the
ends together and which generates the optimal portfolio allocation
based on the input generated by the modules referred in (a)–(c) above
and the policy constraints such as the utility function and investment
constraints.
The estimation of the model segments referred to above depends on data as
also illustrated in Figure 2.6, and the intersection between the models and
the data suggests that the primary job of the models is to uncover the
historical relationship between the variables that are deemed important for
the asset allocation process. This means that depending on the investment
horizon, the model and the data will serve as a lens through which expected
returns and other necessary inputs to the decision support framework
are seen.
74
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 103 ---
4. Forward-looking modelling of the stochastic factors
This section present the main building blocks of the ECB’s SAA framework.
In other words, it details which tools the ECB currently relies on when
deciding its strategic benchmark asset allocation. At the outset it is therefore
important to outline some of the central assumptions applied by the ECB
because this, to a large extent, shapes the models and model framework than
can be applied.
Based on the exposition in Section 3, the central policy requirements are:
(i) the investment horizon should be medium to long term; (ii) the purpose
of holding reserves is to ensure that, if needed, interventions can be con-
ducted in the currency markets, hence, the investment universe comprises
only very liquid instrument vehicles such as government bonds, government
supported agencies and bonds issued by supranational organizations having
a high credit rating; (iii) in the same vein, the risk–return preferences are
speciﬁed subject to security and liquidity as maximizing expected return
while ensuring that there are no losses at a given conﬁdence level over
the chosen investment horizon; (iv) it is not the purpose of the strategic
benchmark allocation to generate out-performance relative to the market,
but rather to serve as an internal optimal market portfolio for the active
layers in the investment process and to act as an anchor for neutral pos-
itions in the event that the active layers have no views. As a consequence, it
should be ensured that only publicly available information enters the SAA
process.
Against this policy background it seems natural that a fundamental
paradigm of the ECB investment process for the SAA is that of ‘conditional
forecasting’ based on publicly available information. The crux of the
approach is to employ a set of transparent and well-documented models
that can help generate return distributions for the eligible investment uni-
verse on the basis of externally generated predictions of the key macro-
economic variables; these return distributions are then fed into the portfolio
optimization module, treated in Section 5, which translates the input data
into an optimal allocation complying with the speciﬁed risk–return pref-
erences. In this context macroeconomic variables and their expected future
time-series behaviour are important because a central premise is that yield
curves, and thus ﬁxed-income returns, mainly are functions of the state of
the economy, especially at the long-term forecasting horizon that is relevant
for the ECB. The ‘market neutral view’ is implemented by the use of
75
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 104 ---
external projections for the average time-series paths for the macroeco-
nomic variables: GDP and CPI growth rates. The use of a simulation
methodology allows that random deviations from the externally provided
average projection path can be generated in accordance with historical
observations. The link between the time-series evolution of the macroeco-
nomic variables and yield curve dynamics is facilitated by a regime-switching
model.
The stochastic factors are modelled using the modular structure pre-
sented in Figure 2.7, which will generate the necessary input for the port-
folio optimizer together with extra summary information used in the
decision-making process.
The rest of this section describes the above-mentioned modules in more
detail. Section 4.1 presents a general simulation-based framework for
modelling the behaviour of GDP and CPI growth on the basis of an
exogenously obtained average trajectory path for these variables. Section 4.2
outlines a regime-switching yield curve model and how it can be used to
generate predictions conditional on macroeconomic variables, Section 4.3
describes how bonds affected by credit risk (migration and default risk)
potentially can be integrated into the framework, Section 4.4 discusses the
integration of exchange rate risk and Section 4.5 ties the knot and shows
how the produced information can be used to calculate expected return
distributions. The portfolio optimizer is presented in Section 5.
Macroeconomic
Module 
Yield-Curve
Module 
Credit Risk
Module 
Exchange Rate
Module 
Calculation of
Returns 
Portfolio
Figure 2.7
Modular structure of SAA tools.
76
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 105 ---
4.1 A macro model for multiple currency areas
A ﬁrst building block of the ECB framework is a model for the joint evo-
lution of the macroeconomic variables across multiple currency areas.12 As
mentioned above, the advocated modelling approach, at least for a main
economic scenario, is based on exogenously provided average trajectories
for GDP and CPI growth rates. It is necessary to devise a model to properly
reﬂect the uncertainty surrounding the future evolvement of the macro
variables. When using externally provided forecasts, the straightforward way
to do this would be to rely on historical forecast errors realized by the
external forecast providers. Unfortunately, in most cases such data is not
available. An alternative approach is therefore needed. The approach cur-
rently applied by the ECB is outlined below.
To facilitate that deviations from the exogenously provided mean tra-
jectories for the variables are consistent with past deviations, it can be
hypothesized that the GDP growth and inﬂation follow a vector auto-
regressive (VAR) process of the form
xt ¼ c þ
X
L
l¼1
Alxtl þ et; et  Nð0; RÞ
where
xt ¼ g1
t ; . . . ; gK
t ; i1
t ; . . . ; iK
t

0
GDP growth is denoted by (gk
t ) and inﬂation is denoted by (ik
t ) within
currency area k ¼ 1, . . . , K, at time t.
xt is then the vector of macroeconomic variables (GDP and CPI growth
rates) observed at time t, and c is a vector of constants. Al is a matrix con-
taining the auto-regressive parameters at lag l. The residuals, et, are assumed to
be normally distributed with a zero mean and covariance matrix R.
By assuming that the externally provided forecasts are based on all the
available information, i.e. the information contained in the VAR system and
additional information not captured by the model, it is possible to simulate
deviations around the externally provided mean path by adding to the
provided mean path (ft) the cumulative deviations (ut):
~xt ¼ ft þ ut
12 This model can naturally also be applied to single currency areas.
77
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 106 ---
The data-generating process used to simulate the cumulative deviations
follow the VAR structure:
ut ¼
X
L
l¼1
Alutl þ et
in which the shocks et are sampled from a multivariate normal distribution
with zero mean and covariance matrix R, and Al is the estimated matrix
containing the autoregressive parameters for the VAR on macro variables.
The modelling approach suggested above generates a very comprehensive
set of macroeconomic scenarios with an average trajectory tracking that of
the externally provided mean trajectories for the relevant variables. Typi-
cally this average can be considered, at least for long-term horizons, as
reﬂecting market consensus views, and is thus also called a ‘normal’ macro
environment. It is sometimes necessary, and it is always a good idea, to also
stress test the chosen portfolio allocation. Given the long investment
horizon it is natural to generate such stress scenarios by varying the
macroeconomic variables; e.g. to stress test the portfolio allocation in a
scenario characterized by inﬂationary and/or recessionary pressures. In
order to do this an alternative average trajectory can be used instead of the
one reﬂecting market consensus views as provided by the forecasters.
The described modelling approach for the macro variables represents an
important input to the yield-curve model developed in the following section. It
facilitates a link to be created between yield-curve dynamics and the dynamic
evolution of the macroeconomic variables, and as such, it supports the com-
prehensive simulation-based modelling approach advocated in this chapter.
Box 2.1. The VAR macro model
It is hypothesized that the GDP growth and inﬂation follow a vector auto-regressive process
of the form
xt ¼ c þ
X
L
l¼1
Alxtl þ et; et  Nð0; RÞ
ð2:1Þ
Subtracting the estimated unconditional means for the macroeconomic variables
equation (2.1) reads
xt  m ¼
X
L
l¼1
Alðxtl  mÞ þ et
ð2:2Þ
78
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 107 ---
Box 2.1. (cont.)
where m represents the vector of historical unconditional means of the GDP and CPI growth
rates, and is based on the estimated intercepts (c) and the estimated auto-regressive
coefﬁcients (Al):
m ¼ ðI 
X
L
l¼1
AlÞ1c;
where I is the Identity Matrix with the same dimension as AI
Deﬁne ut as the cumulative deviations of the macroeconomic variables (xt) from their
unconditional means:
ut ¼ xt  m
where (2.2) can be rewritten as:
ut ¼
X
L
l¼1
Alutl þ et
ð2:3Þ
The provided forecast or mean path for the simulation (ft) is considered to be the
expected value or mean conditional on the current set of information, which includes the
current and past values (L lags) of the macro variables (x  L . . . x0) and other exogenous
information (ey) relevant for each of the forecasted periods (e.g. using annual forecasts and
a ﬁve-year investment horizon, there would be ﬁve ey observations),
EðxtjxL: : : : x0; eyÞ ¼ ft
and from the deﬁnition of ut we could also express ft as
Eðxtjm; uL: : : : u0; eyÞ ¼ ft
So, all the information content of the cumulative errors in every t 	 0 (before the
simulation), is already contained in the current forecast or expected value for x in time t, (ft).
Then, for the simulation, the value of ut has to be reinitialized to zero for every t 	 0, and
thus, only the simulated errors and the estimated autoregressive matrix (~Al) will be used to
generate the cumulative deviations around the mean path, following the structure pre-
sented in equation (2.3).
ut ¼
P
L
l¼1
~Alutl þ et; et  Nð0; RÞ
8t > 0
0
8t 	 0
8
<
:
The last step in the data-generating process would yield the simulated values for x as a
result of adding the simulated cumulative deviations (ut) to the provided mean path (ft ):
~xt ¼ ft þ ut
79
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 108 ---
4.2 The yield-curve model
The approach used for modelling the evolution of yields is based on the
model developed in Bernadell et al. (2005). This modelling framework relies
on a Nelson–Siegel parametric description of the shape and location of the
nominal yield curve (Nelson and Sigel 1987) in combination with a three-
state regime switching model (Hamilton 1994), extended with time-varying
transition probabilities that depend on realizations of exogenous macro-
economic variables, as mentioned in Section 4.1. Based on the evolution of
such macro variables, projections can be constructed for the development of
the yield curves within each currency area k ¼ 1, . . . , K. In the presentation
below the currency superscript is omitted for notational convenience; the
reader can easily conﬁrm that the modelling approach generalizes to a
multi-currency context.
The model set-up is based on a Kalman-ﬁlter representation with the
Nelson–Siegel functional form as the observation equation and the time-
series evolution of the Nelson–Siegel factors as the state equation. Regime-
switches are incorporated following Kim and Nelson (1999). This setup
is similar to Diebold and Li (2006) but is expanded with regime switches
and yield-curve evolutions simultaneously for several yield-curve credit
segments.
The formulation proposed by Nelson and Siegel (1987) expresses the
vector of yields at each point in time as a function of underlying factors and
factor sensitivities. These factors have an economic interpretation as yield-
curve level, slope and curvature factors.
Yt ¼ ½Yt;1; Yt;2; . . . ; Yt;Q0
denote the stacked vector of yield-curve observations for different market
segments (e.g. corresponding to different credit ratings) q ¼ {1, . . . ,Q} at
time t, where each yield curve q consists of n(q) observations with maturities
sq ¼ fs1q; : : : ; snðqÞqg:13
13 In an effort to circumvent problems that relate to negative yields when using the model for forecasting purposes, the
possibility exists to model logarithmic yields rather than the observable yields.
80
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 109 ---
The vector of yields can be expressed using the Nelson–Siegel factors as
Yt ¼ Hbt þ et; et  Nð0; UÞ
ð2:4Þ
where bt ¼ ½blevel
t;1 ; bslope
t;1 ; bcurve
t;1 ; :::; blevel
t;Q ; bslope
t;Q ; bcurve
t;Q 0 collects the Nelson–
Siegel factors i.e. the level, slope and curvature, for all the considered market
segments, H is a block diagonal matrix:
H ¼
h1
0
:::
0
0
h2
0
...
...
...
...
0
0
:::
0
hQ
2
6664
3
7775;
where the diagonal block elements are deﬁned by the factor sensitivities
hq ¼
1
1expðkqs1qÞ
kqs1q
1expðkqs1qÞ
kqs1q
 expðkqs1qÞ
1
1expðkqs2qÞ
kqs2q
1expðkqs2qÞ
kqs2q
 expðkqs2qÞ
..
.
..
.
..
.
1
1expðkqsnðqÞqÞ
kqsnðqÞq
1expðksnðqÞqÞ
ksnðqÞq
 expðkqsnðqÞqÞ
2
666666664
3
777777775
;
ð2:5Þ
and et is a vector of error-terms with a covariance structure given by U.
The three yield-curve factors can be interpreted as the level, i.e. the yield
at inﬁnite maturity, the negative of the yield-curve slope, i.e. the difference
between the short and the long end of the yield curves, and the curvature.
The parameter kq determines the segment speciﬁc time-decay in the
maturity spectrum of factor sensitivities two and three as can be seen from
the deﬁnition of hq above. The evolution of the Nelson-Siegel factors (bt)
are assumed to follow AR(1) processes with regime-switching means. The
model speciﬁcation in equation (2.6) assumes three regimes (S, N, I) which
imply distinct means for each Nelson–Siegel factor. The interpretation of
these three states are based on the shape of the yield curve and deﬁned as:
Steep, Normal and Inverse. The regime switching probabilities at time t are
denoted by pt ¼ pS
t pN
t pI
t

l and a diagonal matrix F collects the auto-
regressive parameters.
81
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 110 ---
bt ¼ Cpt þ Fbt1 þ vt;vt  Nð0; XÞ
ð2:6Þ
where
C ¼
clevel
N;1
clevel
S;1
clevel
I;1
cslope
N;1
cslope
S;1
cslope
I;1
ccurve
N;1
ccurve
S;1
ccurve
I;1
..
.
..
.
..
.
clevel
N;Q
clevel
S;Q
clevel
I;Q
cslope
N;Q
cslope
S;Q
cslope
I;Q
ccurve
N;Q
ccurve
S;Q
ccurve
I;Q
2
666666666666666664
3
777777777777777775
The regime-switching probabilities evolve according to equation (2.7),
where pt1 is the regime-switching probability for the previous period. pZt is
the transition probability matrix which contains the probabilities of
switching from one state to another, given the current state.
pt ¼ pZtpt1
ð2:7Þ
Equation (2.8) links the transition probabilities to the projected GDP
growth rate gt and the inﬂation rate it as well as threshold values for these
variables (g* and i*) which are used to identify distinct macroeconomic
environments. In effect, it is hypothesized that there exist three transition
probability matrices: p2 refers to the transition matrix applicable in a
recession environment (GDP growth and inﬂation rate below their threshold
values), p3 refers to an inﬂationary environment (GDP growth and inﬂation
rate above their threshold values), and p1 to refers to a ‘residual’ environ-
ment, which can be categorized either as a normal (GDP growth above
and inﬂation rate below their threshold values) or a stagﬂation-type of
environment (GDP growth below and inﬂation rate above threshold values).
More precisely, deﬁne:
Zt ¼
1
otherwise
2
if
gt<g and it<i 
3
if
gt>g and it>i 
8
<
:
ð2:8Þ
82
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 111 ---
Box 2.2. Transformation of yields and relative slope
In actual applications of the presented modelling philosophy it may be beneﬁcial to apply a
data transformation on the historical yield curves. It is observed by Bernadell et al. (2005)
that it may be beneﬁcial to express the slope of the yield curve relative to the level of the
yield curve. This is particularly important because the slope factor is the main determinant
of the estimated regimes in the Bernadell et al. paper. The transformation applied is the
following:
~Y t sj
 
¼ Yt sN
ð
Þ  Yt sN
ð
Þ  Yt sj
 
Yt sN
ð
Þ
8j 2 1; 2; . . . ; N
f
g
Analogously, the following transformation could be applied directly on the Nelson-Siegel
slope and curvature factors, instead of on the observed yields:
~b slope
t
¼ b slope
t
b level
t
; and
~b curve
t
¼ b curve
t
b level
t
Economically it makes sense to impose the above transformation because the values
that the slope can assume are restricted by the yield-curve level, e.g. in a situation where a
very low-yield environment prevails the slope can take values that are constrained from
above by the value of the level, since the short nominal yield cannot be negative. If a
classiﬁcation scheme is established on the basis of the slope of the yield curve, as it is the
case in Bernadell et al., and the estimation period is long and thus potentially covers high-
and low-yield environments, it seems necessary to apply the above transformation to
control for the effect the level has on the slope factor.
4.3 A model for credit migrations
The yield-curve framework outlined above also allows for the modelling of
portfolio credit risk comprising default and migration risk. By evolving
forward several yield-curve segments at the same time it is possible, once the
credit state of a bond or bond index is known, to price this instrument on
the appropriate yield-curve segment. In a Monte Carlo setting, this allows for
the calculation of price changes following bond up- and downgrades as well
as losses following defaults. For example, if a bond portfolio is constituting
X number of AAA bonds, Y number of AA bonds, Z number of A bonds and
so forth, then it is possible to simulate the credit state of these bonds over the
investment horizon, and once a downgrade is observed, e.g. a downgrade of
83
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 112 ---
a AAA bond to the AA category at time t, then this particular bond will be
priced on the AA yield-curve segment from time t and onwards (until it
potentially is down- or upgraded), and on the AAA yield-curve segment
from time 0 to t  1. Due to the yield spread between the AAA and AA yield-
curve segments, the bond holder in question will then experiences a negative
return from time t  1 to t due to the credit migration.14 Once the Monte
Carlo experiment is ﬁnalized the simulated losses (and gains) due to
migrations and defaults are collected allowing for the calculation of the
return distributions containing both credit and market gains and losses.
This section describes in more detail how the credit states of bonds can be
simulated. The simulation engine requires the following inputs:
 a portfolio of Nissuers number of bond issuers:
 credit ratings at the initial time for each issuer
 exposures i.e. the position taken in each issuer
 the maturity of the holdings in each issuer
 the coupon rate for each issuer;
 a migration matrix M that holds the migration and default probabilities
for each credit rating;
 an asset correlation describing how the credit state of issuers move
together over time;
 investment horizon and its discretization of Nyears and Nperiods.
It is noted that the portfolio is expressed in terms of ‘issuer’ rather than
‘bond’ holdings. This is because the default and migration events are linked
uniformly to the issuer rather than to the actual bond issues. It is naturally
possible to build a model for bonds by appropriately adapting the corre-
lation matrix, which expresses the co-movements between the issuers/bonds.
However, this would increase computational time unnecessarily and not
bring about more precise results. Instead, generic indices can be constructed
on the basis of the bonds issued by the same issuer; these issuer-indices
then reﬂect the characteristics of the underlying bonds, e.g. as a result of a
market value weighting scheme, and show the exposure in a portfolio to the
included issuers.
14 It is worth noting that it is not necessarily guaranteed that the simulated yield curves will exhibit positive spread for
decreasing credit ratings. If the variance of the innovations to the simulated paths are much greater than the
estimated spreads between the credit curves, then it may be that curves cross during the simulation horizon, e.g. that
the A curve at one or more time points for one or more maturities are higher than BBB or lower credit rating curves.
Such dynamics seem to contradict economic intuition and can be avoided by proper model choices e.g. by modelling
the spreads of AA and lower credit ratings as a function of the time-series evolution of the level for the AAA/Gov
segment and constants of increasing size.
84
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 113 ---
Based upon the input variables deﬁned above the actual credit simulation
follows the steps below:
(1) Simulation of correlated random variables. A matrix z of dimension
(Nperiods x Nissuers) is drawn from a normal multivariate distribution
with zero mean and a covariance (correlation) matrix Q with dimension
(Nissuers x Nissuers) and showing unity on the diagonal and the asset
correlation on off-diagonals. In order to get a random value that is
comparable to the credit-rating thresholds implied by the used credit
migration matrix, the inverse normal (N 1) of the random variables are
taken. This comparison determines whether a given issuer defaults,
migrates or has an unchanged credit rating at the observation points
covering the investment horizon.
(2) Convert random numbers into credit ratings at each observation
point. By combining the information from step (1) with the migration
matrix M it is possible to derive the credit state of the issuers comprised
by the investment universe. M represents the probability over a given
horizon (usually annual) that an issuer with a given credit rating
upgrades, downgrades, stays unchanged or defaults. After the entries of
the migration matrix have been adjusted for the time period under
investigation the normal inverse function is applied to M_adj to make
the entries comparable to z from step (1).
Conditional on the current credit state of the issuer, credit
migrations are then determined by comparing the appropriate entry
in z to the normal inverse of the corresponding row in M_adj. Denote
by Cr_state the matrix of simulated credit states for the issuers
comprised by the portfolio, and let t denote the time period, and let j
denote the issuers, then the entries in Cr_state are found by:
Cr stateðt; jÞ kj ¼
min h1 zðt; jÞ > N1 1  M adj k; h
ð
Þ
ð
Þ
ð
Þ h 2 1; :::; k  1
f
g
j
f
g;
max h1 zðt; jÞ < N 1 M adj k; h
ð
Þ
ð
Þ
ð
Þ h 2 1; :::; k  1
f
g
j
f
g;
h1
zðt; jÞ > N 1 M adj k; h þ 1
ð
Þ
ð
Þ ^ zðt; jÞ
< N1 1  M adj k; h  1
ð
Þ
ð
Þ
	

h 2 k
f g
j
8
>
>
<
>
>
:
9
>
>
=
>
>
;
where k is the credit state at t 1 and h ¼ 1, . . . , H is a numerical
equivalent for the rating classes and 1(.) is an indicator function.
(3) Evolve yield curves forward. To facilitate the pricing of the generic
issuer-indices relevant yield-curve segments have to be evolved forward
for the chosen planning horizon. This process is based on the yield-
curve model outlined in Section 4.2; hence, a yield curve is projected
85
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 114 ---
forward for each credit rating conditional on the realization of the
macroeconomic variables.
(4) Price the bonds according to their credit rating at each observation
point. Based on the characteristics of the generic issuer indices i.e.
coupon rate, coupon frequency, maturity/duration the issuer indices
are priced according to conventional bond pricing formulas as given in
Section 4.5.
In order to account for the states of the economy included in the credit
model, various approaches can be followed:
 Different means other than zero, and even different covariance matrices
could be used in the generation of random numbers (step 1) to account
for periods of higher correlation and/or volatility, and observed trends in
the evolution of creditworthiness under different states of the economy.
A calibration would be necessary in both cases to guarantee on average a
zero mean and a covariance matrix with unitary standard deviation and
average observed correlations.
 Different transition matrices could be used for recessionary, inﬂationary
or normal periods (step 2).
4.4 Modelling exchange rates
A comprehensive SAA framework aiming to support long-term ﬁxed-
income investment decisions should ideally comprise a model for the
contemporaneous evolution of the central risk drivers (yield curves or yield-
curve factors) and exchange rates. Exchange rates are needed in the case
where different portfolios are denominated in different currencies, and
when one wants to exploit possible international diversiﬁcation effects by
optimizing all portfolios jointly.
If one contemplates doing joint portfolio optimization for international
ﬁxed-income portfolios it is naturally necessary to convert returns into a
common currency denominator. Once the decision is taken to do joint
optimization across several currency areas, one proceeds by calculating
expected returns in a common currency for the full investment universe as
well as the needed risk measure(s), i.e. the covariance in the case of Mar-
kowitz mean-variance optimization, and return distributions in the case a
simulation-based approach is used. When the relevant input data have been
recovered it is easy to ﬁnalize the job by ﬁnding the optimal asset allocation
fulﬁlling the risk–return preferences and policy constraints of the organ-
ization in question. So, in theory, international ﬁxed-income portfolio
86
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 115 ---
optimization is straightforward. Unfortunately, in practice we need to deal
with real-life data, and this complicates the process for at least two reasons.
First, international ﬁxed-income returns are generally highly correlated. The
volatility of the foreign reserve markets is roughly seven times higher than
the volatility of ﬁxed-income market. As a result, given the high correlation
of returns and the much higher volatility of the foreign bonds, it may be
difﬁcult to obtain any positive allocation to the non-domestic investment
vehicles from a pure portfolio optimization exercise. Second, it has proven
to be extremely difﬁcult to produce reliable forecasts for exchange rate
movements (see among others Meese and Rogoff 1983). The difﬁculty in
predicting exchange rates may be mitigated, to some extent, if the relevant
currency pairs are integrated in a joint modelling framework comprising
also yield-curve factors and macroeconomic variables. Koivu et al. (2007)
do this and report encouraging results. In fact, they hypothesize that the
improved forecastability of exchange rates originates from the incorpor-
ation of yield-curve factors (they use the Nelson–Siegel yield-curve factors:
level, slope and curvature) rather than just one single point on the yield
curve as it is often done in empirical tests of e.g. the interest rate parities.
Even in the event that a given model parameterization, when estimated
on historical data either in the form of a VAR or a co-integrated model,
does not provide superior exchange rate forecasts, compared to e.g. a
random walk model, it can still make a lot of sense to rely on a joint
exchange rate, yield curve and macro model, when doing joint portfolio
optimization. In particular, such a framework would allow for the gener-
ation of stress tests and could provide decision makers with important
information conditional upon given expectations they may have to one or
more of the variables included in the model.
It is clear that it is an empirical challenge to integrate exchange rates into
a strategic asset allocation framework applicable to ﬁxed-income portfolios.
Above we have outlined a few ideas as to how one may generate return
distributions for domestic and foreign bonds as they are relevant for SAA.
However, we acknowledge that this is only an appetizer: fundamental
questions still remain to be answered.
4.5 Instrument pricing and calculation of returns
This section outlines well-known ﬁxed-income mathematics relevant for
calculating bond prices and returns. The process described above is quite
general in that it allows for the projection of yield curves, exchange rates and
87
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 116 ---
the credit state of given issuer/bond indices. This facilitates the calculation
of bond returns comprising market as well as credit risk in the local cur-
rency, and by incorporating the exchange rate changes these returns can also
be expressed in a base currency. It is naturally also possible to calculate
expected return distributions originating from either of the unique risk
sources, if that should be of interest, as it may be in a traditional market risk
analysis in local currencies. The calculation formulas presented below are
general and can be used in either of these situations.
Projected yield curves are translated into prices Pt, j and returns expressed
in local currency k, Rk
t; j for the individual instrument classes j ¼ {1, . . . ,J},
where j subsumes instruments that have pure market risk exposure as well
as instruments that have both market and credit risk exposures. The
maturity is denominated by st, j. The price of an instrument at time t is a
function of the instrument’s maturity, its coupon C and the prevailing
market yield Y as it is observed at the maturity relevant for asset class j. The
price can be written as
Pt; jð C; YÞ ¼ C
Y
1 
1
1 þ Y
ð
ÞN
 
!
þ
100
1 þ Y
ð
ÞN
where C ¼ Ct1,j denotes the coupon, N ¼ st, j denotes the maturity and
Y ¼ Yt, j denotes the yield. It is important to note that Yt,j refers to the
relevant credit yield-curve segment at time t for the relevant maturity
segment. Finally, total gross returns in the local (foreign) currency k (Rk) for
the instrument classes can be calculated as
Rk
t; j ¼
Pt;jðst;j; Ct1;j; Yt;jÞ
Pt1;jðst1;j; Ct1;j; Yt1;jÞ þ Ct1;jDt
where Ct  1, jDt is the deterministic part of the return resulting from coupon
payments. In the calculations it is assumed that at time t the portfolio is always
rebalanced by replacing the existing bonds with instruments issued at par at
time t, thus the coupon payments correspond to the prevailing yields at t  1.
The presented gross returns are expressed in local currency, whereas in
a multi-currency framework, in which exchange rates are modelled, the
relevant returns are expressed in a base currency. To transform these gross
returns in local currency into gross returns in base currency one has to
multiply gross returns with gross exchange rate returns (W). Denoting by nk
the exchange rate quoted on a direct basis (Foreign/Home), then the
88
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 117 ---
exchange rate gross return (W) for currency k using domestic currency as
the base currency from time t  1 to t will be
Wk
t ¼ nk
t

nk
t1
and the gross return in base currency (Rb) will be
Rb
t;j ¼ Rk
t;j · Wk
t
Typically the conversion of returns expressed in local currency to returns
expressed in foreign currency will not be done at the instrument level, but at
the portfolio or portfolio tranche level.
5. Optimization models for SAA under a shortfall approach
This section describes how to reach an optimal asset allocation using the inputs
described above, i.e. most importantly the simulated return distributions. It is
the premises that the investor is interested in a relatively long investment
horizon, for which the return distributions are simulated, and that the objective
function expresses aversion against losses. The formulations presented below
should be relevant for many central banks who aim at avoiding annual
investment losses in their reserves management operations (see IMF 2005).
The particular innovation of this section is to formulate the SAA problem
as a multi-stage optimization problem without imposing any particular
distributional form on the return distributions as opposed to a general one-
period Markowitz optimization, and relying on a shortfall approach in
which the objective function will be deﬁned as either to minimize the risks
or to maximize return subject to a given risk budget. Section 2.2.4 of this
chapter presented the following discontinuous utility function for a short-
fall/VaR approach:
U ¼ uðr; ðCÞVaRðaÞÞ
uðr; ðCÞVaRÞ ¼
r; ifðCÞVaRðaÞ  0
ðCÞVaR; ifðCÞVaRðaÞ<0

Maximization of this utility function can be directly speciﬁed in the opti-
mization problem, or be split into two different objective functions which
would apply under speciﬁc conditions. For pedagogical reasons, the latter
option is presented below.
89
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 118 ---
Section 5.1 describes an approach for SAA in a multi-currency envir-
onment where the objective is to minimize the risks inherent in holding the
foreign reserve assets from a base currency perspective hence including
exchange rate risk in the analysis. The main idea being that a central bank is
unwilling to take active part in the FX markets, apart from if/when inter-
ventions are undertaken, but wants to diversify its investments to minimize
annual losses. This sort of approach is preferred when integrating exchange
rate risk in a shortfall type of analysis, since other formulations of the
objective function and optimization constraints, as the one presented in
Section 5.2 for a single currency, are not feasible given the dramatic increase
in the shortfall risk ﬁgures arising from the inclusion of exchange rate risk.
Following the same lines, Section 5.2 presents a model for a single cur-
rency area in which the objective is to maximize returns in local currency
subject to a no-loss constraint. This second approach is the one currently
applied by the ECB when managing foreign reserves and own funds port-
folios, since exchange rate risk is managed independently, mainly on the
basis of policy considerations, and thus, it is difﬁcult to assess whether the
pay-off of the presented joint or multi-currency portfolio optimization
compensate for the increase in model risk arising from the inclusion of
exchange rate risk. Notwithstanding this, the so-called ‘multi-currency
model’ is ﬁrst presented, since it serves the purpose of illustrating a general
portfolio optimization framework, where the single currency model can be
seen as a special case. Also, the general speciﬁcation presents an objective
function that complements the single-currency objective function when
certain market conditions and/or hard constraints on minimum holdings
prevent the projected efﬁcient frontier to lie in the area of the mean-
shortfall space which is deﬁned as feasible by the no-loss (VaR/shortfall)
constraint.15
The SAA decision when set in a multi-period and multi-currency setting
aims at ﬁnding an optimal currency allocation as well as an allocation
between instrument classes within each currency area while taking into
account global and local optimization constraints. For example, a central
purpose of many reserve holdings is to facilitate central bank currency
interventions and this may naturally impose some restrictions on the
relative distribution of investments across currencies as well as on the
liquidity and risk proﬁle of the allocations within each local currency area.
15 An example of a case in which complementary objective function is needed is presented in Section 6.5.
90
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 119 ---
Such requirements have to be accounted for in the formulation of the
central bank’s risk preferences used to derive the optimal asset and currency
allocation. For instance, the ability to liquidate quickly and with minimum
price impact a large proportion of the assets held is an important require-
ment for an intervention portfolio. In terms of optimization constraint,
this requirement imposes a minimum portfolio allocation to highly liquid
instruments.
A consistent risk measure that accounts for the concerns of central banks
in relation to foreign reserve holdings is Conditional Value at Risk. This
measure allows decision makers to express directly their aversion against
losses of a certain magnitude at a given conﬁdence level. It is shown below
that CVaR also has an interpretation in terms of regular Value at Risk.
Hence, relying on CVaR easily generalizes to cases where decision makers
express their risk aversion in the form of a VaR number at a given conﬁ-
dence level.
By deﬁnition the objective of avoiding annual losses at some conﬁdence
level a can be related to the concept of Value at Risk (VaR). Let R 2 (0, 1)
denote a random growth rate of an asset, i.e. R ¼ 1 þ r with r being the
return, such that R < 1 represents a loss and R > 1 represents a gain, let FR
be its cumulative distribution function, i.e. FR(u) ¼ Pr(R 	 u) and let F1
R (v)
be its inverse i.e. F1
R (v) ¼ inf{u : FR > v}. For a speciﬁed conﬁdence level
a, deﬁne the VaR as the 1  a quantile, i.e. VaR1a(R) ¼ F1
R (1  a). For
example, the objective of avoiding losses at a 99 per cent conﬁdence level
would be formulated as VaR0.01(R)  1.
VaR is widely used as a risk measure in the ﬁnance industry, but it has
several drawbacks which limit its use as a risk measure in portfolio opti-
mization applications (see e.g. Rockafellar and Uryasev 2000 and Krokhmal
et al. 2002). For example, since VaR is deﬁned as the loss at a given con-
ﬁdence level it does not give information about the losses beyond the
chosen conﬁdence level. Losses beyond VaR may be important especially if
the loss distribution is non-normal, e.g. fat-tailed or skewed, as it is often
the case for returns on ﬁnancial assets. Theoretical shortcomings of VaR are
(i) it is not sub-additive, i.e. diversiﬁcation among ﬁnancial assets may
actually increase VaR, i.e. increase the risk measured, rather than decrease it
as conventional portfolio theory would suggest; (ii) it is in general non-
convex, which causes great practical difﬁculties in optimization applications
due to possibly multiple local optima. These mentioned shortcomings of
VaR are not shared by the closely related risk measure CVaR.
91
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 120 ---
The deﬁnition of CVaR, for a speciﬁed conﬁdence level a and a prob-
ability measure P is
CVaRaðRÞ ¼ EPðR : R 6 VaR1aðRÞÞ
That is, CVaRa equals the expected tail return below VaR1a(R), i.e. the
expected return in the worst (1  a)*100% of cases. See e.g. Rockafellar and
Uryasev (2000) and Pﬂug (2000) for a detailed discussion of the theoretical
and computational advantages of CVaR compared to VaR as a risk measure.
CVaR can equivalently be deﬁned as the solution of an optimization
problem (Rockafellar and Uryasev 2000):
CVaRaðRÞ ¼ sup
b
fb 
1
1  a EP½maxðb  R; 0Þg
where the optimal b is the VaR1a(R). A desirable feature of this formu-
lation is that when the continuous probability measure P is approximated
by a discrete sample of realizations from P, which is usually needed for
numerical solution of the problem, it can be expressed as a system of linear
constraints, see Rockafellar and Uryasev (2000). This makes CVaR an
attractive risk measure for portfolio optimization applications and will be
used to formulate the risk preferences in the following sections. In addition,
this way of formulating the optimization problem ensures that the tail
constituting the losses has properties that are in accordance with decision
makers’ wishes. In particular, it is ensured, that exactly a per cent of the
probability mass is in the tail, while at the same time the VaR level is
maximized (i.e. the least negative value of b is chosen).
An intuitive way to think about the above linkage between VaR and CVaR
is that VaR is the quantile where a certain probability mass is ensured to be
observed in the tail (in this case the left tail of the return distribution R).
Hence, it is possible to optimize over the VaR level, denoted by b, until
exactly a per cent of the distribution is in the tail, and once the correct level
of b is found, then the CVaR can be found as the average losses that fall in
the tail. As for the last term on the right-hand side in the above equation, i.e.
the deﬁnition of the tail beyond (b):
1
1  a EP½maxðb  R; 0Þ
it is noted that the tail is deﬁned as max(b  R, 0), which means that, going
from the right tail to the left tail (i.e. from gains to losses), all returns are
92
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 121 ---
given a zero until the level of b is reached and then afterwards observations
are allocated the value b-R. Hence, the expectation is calculated as the
original return minus the VaR return (b), and to get the result right, the
VaR return (b) is then added again.
5.1 Multi-currency model
Consider a multi-stage portfolio optimization problem where decisions are
interlinked with realizations of random variables. The investment decisions
at each time stage t ¼ 0,1, . . . ,T, where t ¼ 0 denotes the present time, are
based on the revealed information up to that point in time. This kind of
interdependence of decisions and information is typical for sequential
decision making under uncertainty.
Let k 2 {1, . . . , K} denote the set of modelled currency areas with K
denoting the base currency and the set of available asset classes in currency
area k is indexed by j ¼ 1, . . . , J(k). The following summarizes the used
notation:
Random variables:
Wk
t ¼
nk
t
nk
t1 ¼ exchange rate return measured in base currency against
foreign currency k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1 over period [t  1, t], where t ¼ 1, . . . ,T,
Rk
t;j ¼ total gross return/growth rate of asset class j ¼ 1, . . . , J(k) invested in
currency k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1 over period [t  1, t], expressed in local currency k.
Decision variables:
xk
t;j proportion of wealth invested in asset class j ¼ 1, . . . , J(k) in currency
k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1 at time t ¼ 1, . . . , T,
gk ¼ proportion of wealth invested in currency k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1,
bk
t ¼ cut-off point for CVaR at time t ¼ 1, . . . ,T, in currency k ¼ 1, . . . , K.
Deterministic parameters:
ck
j ¼ portfolio update limit for asset class j ¼ 1, . . . ,J(k) in currency
k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1,
lk
j ; uk
j ¼ lower and upper bounds for the proportion invested in asset class
j ¼ 1, . . . J(k) in currency k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1,
~l k;~uk lower and upper bounds for the proportion invested in currency
k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1,
ak ¼ conﬁdence level for CVaR in currency k ¼ 1, . . . , K.
As argued above, the decision maker’s utility function is speciﬁed in
terms of CVaR with the objective to minimize expected annual risk
expressed as CVaRak over the investment horizon measured in base currency
at a conﬁdence level a,
93
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 122 ---
max
x;b;g
X
T
t¼1
ðbK
t 
1
1  aK EP½maxðbK
t 
X
K1
k¼1
Wk
t
X
JðkÞ
j¼1
xk
t1;jRi;k
t;j ; 0Þ;
ð2:9Þ
where P is the probability measure of the random variables and EP denotes
the expectation operator with respect to the probability measure P. Here the
currency composition and co-dependence between bond returns and
exchange rate returns play an important role in shaping the combined
return distribution from a base currency perspective. Additional constraints
that guard against annual losses in local currencies can be imposed by
deﬁning the following set of restrictions
supbfbk
t 
1
1  ak EP½maxðbk
t 
X
J
j¼1
xk
t1; jRk
t; j; 0Þg  gk;
t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; k ¼ 1; . . . ; K  1:
ð2:10Þ
As mentioned above, a desirable feature of CVaR, which makes it a very
attractive risk measure for portfolio optimization, is that when the continuous
probability measure P is approximated by a discrete sample of realizations
from P, equations (2.9) and (2.10) simplify to a linear objective function with
a system of linear constraints, see Section 5.1.1. Policy constraints are easily
included in the formulation. Such possible constraints are outlines below:
 Transaction cost limits that keeps the portfolio turnover in period [t  1, t]
under a speciﬁed tolerance level ck
j may be relevant, i.e.:
xk
t;j  xk
t1;j

 	 ck
j ; t ¼ 0; : : : ; T  1; j ¼ 1; : : : ; JðkÞ; k ¼ 1; : : : ; K  1:
 Bounds on the currency weights can be formulated as:
~lk 	 gk 	 ~uk; k ¼ 1; . . . ; K  1;
 Limits on the portfolio shares within each currency k can be expressed as,
lk
j gk 	 xk
t;j 	 uk
j gk; t ¼ 0; : : : ; T  1; j ¼ 1; : : : ; JðkÞ; k ¼ 1; : : : ; K  1:
 Asset class speciﬁc bounds to account e.g. for liquidity issues can be
written as
^lk
j gk 	
X
j 2 BðkÞ
xk
t;j 	 ^uk
j gk; t ¼ 0; : : : ; T  1; k ¼ 1; : : : ; K  1:
94
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 123 ---
 where B(k) 
 {1, . . . ,J(k)} is some subset of the available assets in
currency area k¼1, . . . ,K.
 As a matter of deﬁnition, it is required that the portfolio shares within
each currency sum up to the currency share, i.e.
X
JðkÞ
j¼1
xk
t;j ¼ gk; t ¼ 0; : : : ; T  1; k ¼ 1; : : : ; K  1
 And, ﬁnally it is required that the static currency weights sum up to one:
X
K
k¼1
gk 	 1
In the presented model formulation it is assumed that the decisions taken
are non-anticipative, which means that the decision variables of a given time
stage cannot depend on the random variables whose values are observed
only in later stages. The evolution of the random variables is described with
continuous (multivariate) probability distribution generated by the model
presented in Section 4. For such a (general) probability distribution the
analytical computation of the expectation in (2.9) is practically impossible
and therefore, the presented optimization problem has to be solved
numerically by discretizing the continuous probability distribution P. The
discrete approximation of P is generated by sampling a set of scenarios from
the speciﬁed density and the sample approximation of the original problem
is then solved using numerical optimization techniques. A convex deter-
ministic equivalent formulation of the above problem is presented in the
following section.
5.1.1 Discretization
In order to solve the optimization model presented above, the probability
distribution P of the random variables has to be discretized and the
resulting problem solved numerically. This can be done by generating N
sample paths of realizations for the random variables spanning the time
stages t ¼ 1, . . . ,T, as also mentioned above. Each simulated path reﬂects a
sequence of possible outcomes for the random variables over the investment
horizon and the collection of sample paths gives a discrete approximation of
the probability measure P. For a discretized probability measure the
objective (2.9) can be formulated as a combination of a linear objective
95
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 124 ---
function (2.11) and linear inequalities (2.12). The loss constraints in
local currencies (2.10) can be replaced with a system of linear restrictions
(2.13)–(2.14) (Rockafellar and Uryasev 2000) in the formulation below.
This results in a linear stochastic optimization problem
max
x;z;b;g
X
T
t¼1
ðbK
t  ð1  aKÞ1 X
i2vt pizi;K
t
Þ
ð2:11Þ
subject to
zi;K
t
 bK
t 
X
K1
k¼1
Wk
t
X
JðkÞ
j¼1
xk
t1;jRi;k
t;j ; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; i ¼ 1; . . . ; N;
ð2:12Þ
bk
t  ð1  akÞ1 X
i2vt pizi;k
t
 gk;
t ¼ 1; : : : ; T; k ¼ 1; . . . ; K  1
ð2:13Þ
zi;k
t
 bk
t 
X
JðkÞ
j¼1
xk
t1;jRi;k
t;j ;
t ¼ 1; : : : ; T; i ¼ 1; : : : ; N;
k ¼ 1; : : : ; K  1
ð2:14Þ
X
JðkÞ
j¼1
xk
t;j ¼ gk; t ¼ 0; : : : ; T  1; k ¼ 1; : : : ; K  1;
ð2:15Þ
X
K
k¼1
gk 	 1;
ð2:16Þ
ck
j gk 	 xk
t;j  xk
t1;j 	 ck
j gk;
t ¼ 1; . . . ; T  1; k ¼ 1; . . . ; K  1;
j ¼ 1; . . . ; JðkÞ;
ð2:17Þ
~l k 	 gk 	 ~uk; k ¼ 1; . . . ; K  1;
ð2:18Þ
lk
j gk 	 xk
t;j 	 uk
j gk; t ¼ 0; : : : ; T  1; k ¼ 1; . . . ; K  1;
j ¼ 1; . . . ; JðkÞ;
ð2:19Þ
where zi;k
t
are dummy variables, pi is the probability of scenario i. The
decision variables in the model only depend on time (i.e. they are scenario
independent) and therefore the solution will be non-anticipative even
96
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 125 ---
though a tree structure is not used for describing the evolution of the
random variables. If constraints (2.13) are active at the optimum, the
corresponding optimal value bk
t will equal the VaRk
t;1a and the left-hand side
of (2.13) will be equal to CVaRk
t;a for k ¼ 1, . . . , K  1 and t ¼ 1, . . . , T (for
details see e.g. Rockafellar and Uryasev 2000). Constraint (2.15) restricts the
sum of portfolio weights within each currency to equal the share of that
currency in the portfolio and (2.16) ensures that the currency weights sum
up to one. Constraint (2.17) deﬁnes the annual portfolio updating limits for
each asset class and (2.18) –(2.19) give the lower and upper bounds for the
weights of individual currencies and portfolio shares within each currency,
respectively.
A ﬁxed-mix solution can be found if the turn-over constraints (the cj) are
set to zero from one period to the next. In this case the asset weights stay
constant over the investment horizon.
5.2 Single market model
This section describes a model for SAA in a single currency setting and as
such it presents a reduced version of the above general multi-currency
model formulation.
The objective here is to ﬁnd a dynamic decision strategy that maximizes
the value of the portfolio at the end of the planning horizon, while com-
plying with the decision makers risk–return preferences as well as other
policy constraints when applicable.
For most parts the model follows the formulation presented in the pre-
vious section. The objective of the model, to maximize the expected wealth
at the end of the investment horizon can be written as
max
x;W;b EPWT
ð2:20Þ
where P is the probability measure of the random variables, EP denotes the
expectation operator and the development of the portfolio value (wealth)
over period [t  1, t] is given by
Wt ¼ Wt1
X
J
j¼1
xt1;jRt;j;
t ¼ 1; . . . ; T
ð2:21Þ
97
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 126 ---
Maximizing (2.20) subject to (2.21) and constraints (2.13) –(2.19) applied
to a single currency case results in the following discretized stochastic
optimization model:
max
x;z;b;W
X
i2N
piW i
T
ð2:22Þ
subject to
bt  ð1  aÞ1 X
i2mt pizi
t  1;
t ¼ 1; . . . ; T
ð2:23Þ
zi
t  bt 
X
J
j¼1
xt1;jRi
t;j;
t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; . . . ; N
ð2:24Þ
X
J
j¼1
xt;j ¼ 1;
t ¼ 0; . . . ; T  1
ð2:25Þ
W i
t ¼ W i
t1
X
j
j¼1
xtt;jRi
i;j;
t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; i ¼ 1; . . . ; N
ð2:26Þ
cj 	 xt;j  xt1;j 	 cj;
t ¼ 0; . . . ; T  1; j ¼ 1; . . . ; J
ð2:27Þ
lj 	 xt;j 	 uj; t ¼ 0; . . . ; T  1; j ¼ 1; . . . ; J
ð2:28Þ
where the CVaR constraints against periodic losses are deﬁned by a system
of linear restrictions (2.23)–(2.24), zi
t are scenario-dependent dummy
variables and pi is the probability of scenario i. If constraint (2.23) is active
at an optimal solution, the corresponding optimal value bt will equal the
VaRt,1a and the left-hand side of (2.23) will be equal to CVaRt, a for stage t.
Constraint (2.25) ensures that the sum of the portfolio weights equals one
and the portfolio wealth at time t in scenario i is expressed by (2.26).
Constraint (2.27) speciﬁes the annual portfolio updating limits for each
asset class and the lower and upper bounds for the portfolio shares are given
by (2.28).
A ﬁxed-mix solution can be found if the turn-over constraints (the cj’s)
are set to zero from one period to the next. In this case the asset weights stay
constant over the investment horizon.
98
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 127 ---
6. The ECB case: an application
This section presents examples of how the techniques outlined above are
used within the ECB to provide information that can aid senior manage-
ment in making SAA decisions. The examples are only illustrative and
should neither be taken to represent concrete investment advice nor as an
‘information package’ endorsed by the ECB. Rather the examples show
hypothetical empirical application of the methodology advocated in the
above sections.
The next section describes the investment universe; Section 6.2 presents
the objective function; Section 6.3 elaborates on how the models presented
in other sections are used in practise and describes some details about the
speciﬁcation and parameters of those models as have been used in the
examples, Section 6.4 shows an application to a realistic scenario that is
labelled as normal, due to the expected evolution of macroeconomic vari-
ables and the starting yield curve, and Section 6.5 shows an application to a
non-normal scenario, presenting an inﬂationary economic situation and a
starting yield curve close to the historically lowest levels observed in the US.
Those scenarios have been chosen, instead of a single normal scenario, to
better illustrate the effect of the starting yield curves and the projected
evolution of the macroeconomic variables have on the SAA decisions
support information generated by the SAA framework.
6.1 The investment universe
The deﬁnition of the eligible investment universe may to some extent reﬂect
the objective of holding reserves. In the case where reserves are held for
intervention purposes the overriding principles for the holdings will be
security and liquidity and hence only very conservative investment vehicles
should constitute the available investment universe. The following list of
instruments could form such an eligible investment universe:
 government bonds
 agencies with government support
 BIS instruments
 bonds issued by supranational organizations
 deposits.
For modelling purposes the eligible investment universe may be subdivided
into maturity buckets. A representative maturity for each bucket will be
99
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 128 ---
used in the Nelson–Siegel model to project the evolution of yields and
calculate the return distributions. Table 2.1 gives an example of how such an
investment universe could look like for the US dollar portfolio, and this is
actually what is used in the current examples below. It is important to note
that Table 2.1 shows only the ﬁrst step of the process of determining the
strategic benchmark. After the optimization exercise is carried out and
optimal exposures are determined to each of the generic ‘indices’ shown
below, each of these exposures are translated into actually tradable bonds
facilitating 100 per cent replication of the benchmark allocation.
6.2 The objective function and constraints
The objective function and the constraints serve as a means to translate the
long-term preferences of the senior management into an actual allocation.
In this context the following formulation may be used. It is the objective to
maximize returns in local currency (USD for a US dollar portfolio) subject
to the liquidity and security of the holdings. Hence, portfolio return is
maximized under the constraints that (a) there are no losses at a 99.5 per cent
conﬁdence level over a one-year horizon, where the no-loss constraint is
expressed in terms of CVaR; (b) there is a minimum holding of government
bonds in the portfolio, e.g. no less than 50 per cent of the portfolio must be
held in government bonds; (c) there is a maximum holding allowed of
certain instruments, e.g. deposits of e.g. 10 per cent; (d) relative market
capitalization is used to impose minimum holdings per time bucket in each
Table 2.1 Example of the eligible investment universe for a USD portfolio
Asset class
Maturity segment
Mnemonic
Government
0–1 years
US Gov 0–1Y
1–3 years
US Gov 1–3Y
3–5 years
US Gov 3–5Y
5–7 years
US Gov 5–7Y
7–10 years
US Gov 7–10Y
Spread products
0–1 years
US Sprd 0–1Y
1–3 years
US Sprd 1–3Y
3–5 years
US Sprd 3–5Y
5–7 years
US Sprd 5–7Y
7–10 years
US Sprd 7–10Y
Cash/Depo
1 month
US Depo 1M
100
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 129 ---
instrument category, determining 60 per cent of the portfolio composition.
The only relevant risk for the portfolio optimizer is interest rate risk, since
the credit risk and exchange rate modules presented in Sections 4.3 and 4.4
are not used to generate the returns that will feed the portfolio optimizer in
the current example.
6.3 Using the models
In a decision-making process, as the one applied by the ECB, there is a lag
between the date that marks the beginning of the analysis period, i.e. the
date after which no new information/data can be added to perform the
relevant model/parameter estimations, and the date when the optimized
portfolio allocation is implemented in practise. This lag is accounted for by
not only modelling the evolution of the different variables through the
investment horizon, but also during the lag period, effectively introducing a
certain amount of uncertainty even prior to the beginning of the relevant
investment horizon. In the examples presented in the next sections, the
relevant investment horizon starts at the end of year X and ﬁnishes after one
year, i.e. in year X þ 1. It is assumed that the analysis is conducted using
data from the end of September of year X.
A VAR model as the one presented in Section 4.1 is used to project year-
over-year monthly observed growth rates for US GDP and CPI, given the
available forecasts for these variables. First, average trajectories for the GDP
and CPI growth rates are projected over the investment horizon. Then,
using the covariance matrix of the residuals of the macroeconomic VAR,
10,000 contemporary shocks on both variables are generated for each
month along the forecast horizon, by sampling from a multivariate normal
distribution. These shocks are cumulated using the estimated auto-regressive
process and added to the average trajectories as explained in Section 4.1.
A dynamic Nelson–Siegel model as presented in Section 4.2 is used to
project the evolution of the different yield curves conditional to the macro-
economic realizations. These realizations are classiﬁed as Normal (including
stagﬂation), Recession or Inﬂation using the classiﬁcation scheme shown in
Table 2.2.
The transition matrices (p) for the different yield-curve regimes condi-
tional to the classiﬁcation of the different macroeconomic environments are
presented in Table 2.3.
The slope and curvature have been transformed as described in Box 2.1 of
Section 4.2 to be expressed in relative terms to the level factor.
101
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 130 ---
The intercepts (C) and the autoregressive coefﬁcients (F) corresponding
to the US Government Yield Curve in the state equation of the Nelson–
Siegel model used in this example can be seen in Table 2.4 and Table 2.5.
The parameter lambda of the Nelson–Siegel model has been assumed to
have a value of 0.0687. The presented model parameters, after reversing the
transformation of the slope and curvature factors, imply the generic normal,
steep and inverse yield curves for the US government instruments that can be
observed in Figure 2.8.
The probability of switching to (or staying in) a normal yield-curve regime
under a normal economic environment converges in the limit to 100 per cent,
and so, after a sufﬁciently long period of normal economic growth and
Table 2.2 Classiﬁcation scheme
Macro variable
GDP YoY growth (%)
CPI YoY growth (%)
Inﬂation
>1.75
>3.75
Recession
<1.75
<3.75
Normal / Stagﬂation
Other combinations
Table 2.3 Transition matrices
Macroeconomy
Normal (p1)
Recession (p2)
Inﬂation (p3)
Regime
Normal
(t)
Steep
(t)
Inverse
(t)
Normal
(t)
Steep
(t)
Inverse
(t)
Normal
(t)
Steep
(t)
Inverse
(t)
Normal (t þ 1)
1.00
0.05
0.05
0.95
0.00
1.00
0.95
1.00
0.00
Steep (t þ 1)
0.00
0.95
0.00
0.05
1.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Inverse (t þ 1)
0.00
0.00
0.95
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.05
0.00
1.00
Table 2.4 Intercepts of the Nelson–Siegel state equation
Regime
Factor
Normal
Steep
Inverse
Level
0.06
0.045
0.065
Slope
 0.024
 0.048
0
Curvature
0.002
0.05
0.002
102
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 131 ---
inﬂation, the yield curve would be expected to converge towards the generic
normal curve. A persistent recessionary period would make the probability
of switching to a steep yield-curve regime converge to 100 per cent, and
consequently, the yield curve will be expected to move towards the generic
steep curve. After a long period of inﬂation, the probability of switching to an
inverted yield-curve regime will converge to 100 per cent, and the yield curve
will be expected to move accordingly towards the generic inverted curve.
As it has been shown, the different evolution of the macroeconomic
scenarios imply a diverse evolution of the state probabilities used to weight
the intercepts corresponding to each yield-curve regime in the Nelson–
Siegel state equation.
Table 2.5 Autoregressive coefﬁcients of the Nelson–Siegel state equation
Factor
Level
Slope
Curvature
Level
0.99
0.00
0.00
Slope
0.00
0.92
0.00
Curvature
0.00
0.00
0.90
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Years to maturity
Continuous Rates (%)
Normal
Steep
Inverted
Figure 2.8
Generic yield curves.
103
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 132 ---
Using the covariance matrix of the residuals of the estimated VAR process
for the Nelson–Siegel factors, 10,000 contemporary shocks on the factors are
generated for each month along the forecast horizon, sampling from a
multivariate normal distribution. Besides these shocks, additional noise has
been added to the simulation by modelling the error-terms of the Nelson–
Siegel observation equation. If a given simulation run produces negative
yields at any maturity the scenario is discarded and replaced by a new one.
Uncertainty is introduced at the level of the evolution of the macro-
economic variables, at the level of the evolution of yield-curve factors and at
the level where yield-curve factors are translated into the actual yield curves.
Introducing such uncertainty allows the analyst to generate realistic yield-
curve scenarios that facilitate stochastic portfolio optimization.
Based on the yield-curve projections it is possible to calculate expected
returns for the generic instrument classes in Table 2.2, in the fashion
described in Section 4.5. Returns are expressed in local currency, i.e. in USD
since this example presents a USD portfolio.
Different baseline scenarios should be investigated in order to provide
decision makers with a full picture of possible future realizations of the
world. Naturally, some of these scenarios may be deﬁned by the decisions
makers.
On the basis of the summary information as well as a detailed account of
how scenarios are generated and in-depth analysis of what each scenario
implies in terms of adherence to the risk–return preferences of the organ-
ization in question, the decision makers can then decide on the optimal
asset allocation for the coming period.
6.4 Application to a normal scenario
6.4.1 Macroeconomic scenarios and starting yield curves
As a ﬁrst example we present a scenario in which the yield curve stays very
close to historically normal levels although relatively ﬂatter, and is assigned
a 100 per cent probability of belonging to the Normal regime. The expected
evolution of the macroeconomic variables (GDP and CPI growth) can also
be seen to represent a ‘normal’ economic environment, since there are no
inﬂationary or recessionary pressures.
Using such expected evolutions as a baseline scenario, 10,000 simulations
are used to generate the needed variable distributions. These distributions
are shown in Figures 2.9a and 2.9b, where shades of grey represent the
simulated probability density and the darker areas represent a higher
104
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 133 ---
probability density for GDP growth (a) and CPI growth (b). The black line
reﬂects the baseline or average evolution.
6.4.2 Yield-curve projections and expected returns
Using the simulated densities for the macro variables as input to the yield-
curve modelling framework described above, allows us to derive simulated
Projection horizon
December X
September X
March X+1
June X+1
September X+1
December X+1
8
(a)
6
4
2
0
–2
GDP growth rate (%)
7
(b)
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
–1
September X
December X
March X+1
June X+1
September X+1
December X+1
Projection horizon
CPI growth rate (%)
Figure 2.9
Normal macroeconomic evolution: (a) GDP YoY % Growth; (b) CPI YoY % Growth.
105
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 134 ---
distributions for the projected evolution of yield curves, starting from its
shape and location at the time the projection is made to the end of the
projection horizon. This is illustrated in Figure 2.10 for the US Government
yield curve. Since the starting yield curve and most of the projected
macroeconomic scenarios can be classiﬁed as normal, no drastic changes in
the yield-curve shape/location are expected, and consequently only a slight
and smooth steepening of the curve is projected on average.
It is worth noting that Figure 2.10 shows only the average yield path, i.e.
the average across all 10,000 simulated yield-curve evolution paths. To gain
additional insight into the simulated yield-curve distributions along the
projection horizon, Figure 2.11 presents two example plots for the US
Gov 0–1Y (Figure 2.11a) and for the US Gov 7–10Y (Figure 2.11b) indices.
The projected evolution of the yield curve permits us to compute the
returns for those indices over the relevant investment horizon (from
December X to December X þ 1 in this example) and thus to generate
return distributions. Table 2.6 illustrates the summary return statistics for
the different indices in this example.
It is shown how the spread products outperform their maturity-matching
Government products, but at the price of a higher volatility arising from the
spread risk (pure credit risk has not been taken into account). It is also
shown how the 1–3 segment of the curve, although it is not the more risky
Figure 2.10
Projected average evolution of the US Government yield curve in a normal example.
106
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 135 ---
segment, is expected to be the best-performing segment, due to the pro-
jected slight steepening of the curve. The possibility of ﬁnding indices or
instruments performing better than other more risky ones, can be observed
even when facing a normal economic environment, particularly when the
investment horizon is shorter than the average length of a business cycle.
(a)
(b)
Figure 2.11
Projected distribution of yields in a normal example: (a) US Gov 0–1Y; (b) US Gov 7–10Y.
107
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 136 ---
However, in the long run the so-called ‘ﬁrst law of ﬁnance’ (the higher the
risk, the higher the expected return) will on average hold, since the capital
losses (gains) coming from increasing (decreasing) yields in the short run
will be compensated by the coupon effect in the medium and long run, and
because yield-curve movements follow the business cycle; and so, a steep-
ening today may be followed in the future by a ﬂattening of the curve.
Another summary statistic worth mentioning is the dispersion of the
return distributions corresponding to the Cash/Depo asset class, which is
higher than the US Sprd 0–1Y, although the maturity and duration of Cash
is lower and both indices have been projected as being priced off the same
(spread) curve. There are two explanations for this fact: ﬁrst, since the
investment horizon is one year, the annual return for an index with a
maturity of one month may be more volatile than that corresponding to an
index with a maturity of six months, which is the average maturity for the
US Sprd 0–1Y index; and second, the last source of uncertainty induced in
the yield-curve model serves the purpose of introducing some speciﬁc risk
other than the risk arising from the evolution of the Nelson–Siegel factors.
This speciﬁc risk, which is modelled after the perturbation term in the
observation equation of the Nelson-Siegel model, has been parameterized as
higher for the US Depo 1M index than for the US Sprd 0–1Y.
The presented returns, together with a covariance matrix, could serve as
the input for a Markowitz optimization. However, since the preferred risk
measure of the ECB is not volatility, but rather a tail-risk measure such as
VaR and CVaR, we are also interested in other features (moments) of the
Table 2.6 Returns in a normal example: average and standard deviation
Asset class
Maturity segment
Average (%)
Standard deviation (%)
Government
0–1 years
4.47
0.87
1–3 years
5.13
1.93
3–5 years
5.12
3.53
5–7 years
4.96
4.51
7–10 years
4.89
5.76
Spread Products
0–1 years
4.88
0.87
1–3 years
5.38
1.96
3–5 years
5.37
3.64
5–7 years
5.21
4.79
7–10 years
5.13
6.38
Cash/Depo
1 month
4.50
1.01
108
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 137 ---
return distribution, such as skewness and kurtosis. To illustrate why these
features may be relevant for a ﬁxed-income investor, the asymmetric and
leptokurtic distribution of the simulated returns for the US Gov 0–1Y index
is presented in Figure 2.12a and the platykurtic and disperse distribution of
returns for the US Gov 7–10Y in Figure 2.12b.
Figure 2.12
Distribution of returns in a normal example: (a) US Gov 0–1Y; (b) US Gov 7–10Y.
109
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors
(a)
(b)

--- Página 138 ---
6.4.3 Optimal portfolio allocations
Based on the simulated returns it is possible to apply the stochastic portfolio
optimization technique. Applying this portfolio optimizer produces an
optimal exposure to each generic index as illustrated in Table 2.7.
The asset allocation in this case is basically determined by the expected
returns, and the imposed constraints on minimum holdings in Government
instruments and minimum holdings relative to the market capitalization.
The risk budget is not completely consumed, since the portfolio that
maximizes expected return is feasible without the need of taking the max-
imum amount of risk permitted. Some summary information for this
portfolio is presented in Table 2.8.
A quick comparison between this summary information and the statistics
for the different indices show how this portfolio composition may seem
sub-optimal, since it presents a lower expected return for a higher volatility16
Table 2.7 Optimal portfolio composition in a normal example
Asset class
Maturity segment
Portfolio weights (%)
Government
0–1 Years
8
1–3 Years
32
3–5 Years
4
5–7 Years
2
7–10 Years
4
Spread Products
0–1 Years
21
1–3 Years
15
3–5 Years
3
5–7 Years
3
7–10 Years
2
Cash/Depo
1 Month
6
Table 2.8 Summary information for the optimal portfolio in a normal example
Expected Return
5.02%
Modiﬁed Duration
1.9
Volatility
2.40%
VaR (99.5%)
0.53%
16 A direct comparison of those tables is not recommended anyway, since the standard deviation of the returns of the
different indices is a measure of the dispersion of the annual simulated returns at the end of the forecasting period,
while the volatility of the portfolio has been computed as the average volatility of the different simulated time-series
of portfolio returns, taking monthly returns and annualizing them. This second measure is closest to the standard
110
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 139 ---
than, e.g. the US Gov 1–3 index. This sub-optimality is in this case the price
to pay for getting a smooth allocation among different indices, i.e. the cost
of the holdings relative to market capitalization constraint. An institution
may be willing to pay this sort of price to increase the stability of the
strategic benchmarks in terms of asset allocation and modiﬁed duration.
If these considerations are seen as part of the utility function of the insti-
tution, although they will typically take the form of constraints in the
optimization problem instead of being an explicit part of the objective
function, the constrained portfolio should then be considered as optimal.
6.5 Application to a non-normal scenario
6.5.1 Macroeconomic scenarios and starting yield curves
This second example presents an extreme scenario, where the economy faces
inﬂationary pressure with the yield curve departing from historically low
levels. The probability of the starting yield curve belonging to a steep curve
regime is assessed as being equal to 100 per cent. The expected evolution of
the macroeconomic variables (GDP and CPI growth) shows an inﬂationary
scenario, in which the GDP forecasts do not show signs of risk to the growth
(i.e. the scenario does not reﬂect a stagﬂation environment).
Using this expected evolution as a baseline, 10,000 simulations are run as
in the previous example. These distributions are seen in Figures 2.13a
and 2.13b, in which the lightest areas represent lower density (number of
simulations), the darkest areas represent a higher density and the black line
traces the baseline or average evolution.
6.5.2 Yield-curve projections and expected returns
The inﬂationary macro scenario results in an increase in the probability of
observing ﬂat yield curves, and consequently, a transition is projected from
a relatively steep curve located at a very low level to a ﬂatter curve located at
a higher level. What is shown in Figure 2.14 represents the mean path of the
yield curve. By introducing uncertainty into the picture, less smooth tran-
sitions are generated.
A better insight into the distribution of the evolution yields along the
projection horizon is presented in Figure 2.15, containing the example plots
notion of volatility, since it is based in the evolution of returns in each scenario, rather than in the dispersion of
different realizations under different scenarios.
111
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 140 ---
for the US Gov 0–1Y (Figure 2.15a) and for the US Gov 7–10Y (Figure 2.15b)
indices.
The projected evolution of the yields corresponding to the different
generic indices modelled permit us to compute the returns for those indices
over the relevant investment horizon (from December X to December X þ 1
(a)
(b)
Figure 2.13
Inﬂationary macroeconomic evolution: (a) GDP YoY% Growth; (b) CPI YoY% Growth.
112
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 141 ---
in this example). Table 2.9 illustrates the summary return statistics for the
different indices in this example.
It is precisely in this sort of non-normal environment where the pre-
sented summary return statistics lose most of their representative power
and, therefore, a better representation of the return distributions is needed.
To illustrate this, the extremely right-skewed and leptokurtic distribution
(a)
Figure 2.15
Projected distribution of yields in a non-normal example: (a) US Gov 0–1Y, (b) US Gov 7–10Y.
Figure 2.14
Projected average evolution of the US Government yield curve in a non-normal example.
113
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 142 ---
of the simulated returns for the US Gov 0–1Y index is presented in Figure
2.16a and the distribution of returns corresponding to the US Gov 7–10Y
index in Figure 2.16b.
6.5.3 Optimal portfolio allocations
Based on these mean returns and the simulated return distributions, the
portfolio optimizer ﬁnds the portfolio that maximizes expected return
Table 2.9 Returns in a non-normal example: average and standard deviation
Asset class
Maturity segment
Average returns (%)
Standard deviation (%)
Government
0–1 Years
1.75
0.53
1–3 Years
1.30
1.49
3–5 Years
1.02
3.00
5–7 Years
0.76
4.00
7–10 Years
0.71
5.35
Spread Products
0–1 Years
1.88
0.56
1–3 Years
1.54
1.53
3–5 Years
1.50
3.17
5–7 Years
1.50
4.37
7–10 Years
1.80
6.12
Cash/Depo
1 Month
2.03
0.63
(b)
Figure 2.15
(cont.)
114
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 143 ---
subject to a no-loss constraint speciﬁed in terms of CVaR with a conﬁdence
level of 99.5 per cent as described in Section 5.2. Unfortunately, due to the
imposed constraint on minimum holdings relative to market capitalization
and to the extreme scenario presented, such a portfolio does not exist.
Consequently, the strategy has been changed to ﬁnd the portfolio that
minimizes risk (CVaR), applying to a single currency case the methodology
(a)
(b)
Figure 2.16
Distribution of returns in a non-normal example: (a) US Gov 0–1Y; (b) US Gov 7–10Y.
115
Strategic asset allocation for fixed-income investors

--- Página 144 ---
described in Section 5.1.1. This produces an optimal exposure to each
generic index as illustrated in Table 2.10.
The asset allocation is in this case basically determined by the minimum
risk exposure implied by the imposed constraints on minimum and max-
imum holdings. Some summary information for this portfolio is presented
in Table 2.11.
This portfolio violates the no-loss constraint at the speciﬁed conﬁdence
level, due to the cost of including a restriction on minimum holdings
relative to the market capitalization, which prevents the Modiﬁed Duration
of the portfolio to fall below 1.5. The possible trade-off between different
objectives, as the speciﬁcation of a no-loss constraint and the benchmark
stability provided by the minimum holdings constraint, has to be treated
carefully in the optimization set-up. In this case benchmark stability and
liquidity and credit exposure limit compliance have been imposed as pri-
mary goals, while the no-loss constraint has been instrumented to play a
secondary role, and ﬁnally, the maximization of return has been integrated
as the third objective in order of importance.
Table 2.10 Optimal portfolio composition in a non-normal example
Asset class
Maturity segment
Portfolio weights (%)
Government
0–1 Years
44
1–3 Years
9
3–5 Years
4
5–7 Years
2
7–10 Years
4
Spread Products
0–1 Years
12
1–3 Years
7
3–5 Years
3
5–7 Years
3
7–10 Years
2
Cash/Depo
1 Month
10
Table 2.11 Summary information for the optimal portfolio in a
non-normal example
Expected Return
1.64%
Modiﬁed Duration
1.5
Volatility
1.53%
VaR (99.5%)
 0.90%
116
Koivu, M., Monar Lora, F. and Nyholm, K.

--- Página 145 ---
3
Credit risk modelling for public
institutions’ investment portfolios
Han van der Hoorn
1. Introduction
Credit risk may be deﬁned as the potential that an obligor (borrower or
counterparty) is unwilling or unable to meet his ﬁnancial obligations in a
timely manner. Credit risk is a dynamic and broad concept as it encom-
passes default risk (i.e. an obligor being unwilling or unable to repay his
debt) as well as changes in the quality of the credit (e.g. a rating change).
Credit risk in central banks comes from two sources. The ﬁrst is related to
policy operations and is discussed in Chapters 7 to 10. The second source
of credit risk comes from investment activities, and is the topic of this
chapter.
Credit risk is the dominant source of ﬁnancial risk in a typical com-
mercial bank, whose traditional role is of an intermediary between lenders
and borrowers. In contrast, and as illustrated by Table 1.3 in Chapter 1,
the typical central bank has only a very limited exposure to credit risk, in
particular when compared with currency and gold price risk. The picture for
public institutions and also institutional investors is more mixed. For some
of them, lending is a core activity, and their credit risk proﬁle may resemble
that of a commercial bank. Examples include the European Investment
Bank (EIB) or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD). But for others, including (state) pension funds and sovereign
wealth funds, credit is not necessarily a natural asset class and their expo-
sures too tend to be rather modest. Many of the topics in this chapter
therefore also apply to this wider audience.
The investment universe of central banks is expanding gradually, also
into instruments with higher credit risk, but credit risk modelling is still in
its early development phase. This chapter reﬂects some of these develop-
ments and is organized as follows. Section 2 starts with a discussion of some
117

--- Página 146 ---
of the arguments that explain why credit risk is increasing in central bank
portfolios. Section 3 presents the ECB’s approach towards credit risk
modelling. In this section, the main parameters of the model will be dis-
cussed and compared with a peer group of Eurosystem National Central
Banks (NCBs). An empirical analysis is done for two different portfolios,
with the aim of comparing simulation results and estimating sensitivities
to parameter changes. The results are presented in Section 4. Section 5
concludes.
2. Credit risk in central bank and other public investors’ portfolios
Traditionally, central banks have been very conservative investors. Although,
on a mark-to-market basis, the typical central bank balance sheet is very
risky, there has been little if any appetite for credit risk. This is because the
dominant sources of risk, currency and gold price risk, are direct conse-
quences of a central bank’s mandate to maintain price stability and are
therefore regarded as (at least partly) ‘unavoidable’ or ‘inescapable’. Adding
credit risk, in contrast, may improve the risk–return proﬁle of the balance
sheet, but comes at the expense of security and liquidity. Since return
maximization is not the primary objective of a central bank, it should come
as no surprise that the amount of credit risk in any central bank portfolio
is below the ‘optimal’ level from a pure investment perspective.
Nevertheless, diversiﬁcation into ‘non-traditional’ assets which bear
credit risk is increasing gradually, for central banks as well as public wealth
funds. Wooldridge (2006) estimates that the proportion of foreign ofﬁcial
institutions’ long-term USD debt securities held in corporate, other non-
government and non-agency debt had risen to 4.2 per cent in 2005, sig-
niﬁcantly less than for instance the share of corporate (non-securitized)
debt in e.g. the Lehman Global Aggregate Index (approximately 17 per cent
at the end of 2007), but still twice as much as ﬁve years earlier. Pringle and
Carver (2005), in one of their annual surveys of reserve management trends,
observe that ‘The single most important risk facing central banks in 2005 is
seen as market risk (reﬂecting expectations of volatility in securities markets
and exchange rates). However, large central banks view credit risk as likely to
be equally if not more important for them as diversiﬁcation of asset classes
increases their exposure to a wider range of borrowers/investments.’ The
ECB has also gradually expanded its investment universe, primarily for its
118
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 147 ---
(domestic) own funds portfolio, thereby cautiously adding some credit risk
to its investment portfolios (ECB 2006a).
There are a number of explanations for this trend. As already discussed
in Chapter 1, central bank reserves have grown rapidly in recent years, in
particular in Asia. To the extent that some of these reserves may not be
directly needed to fulﬁll public duties (e.g. be used to fund interventions),
the public increasingly demands a decent investment return on assets.
At the same time, until recently, expected returns have diminished, as a
result of lower interest rates and risk premia. Credit instruments may offer
attractive investment opportunities with higher expected returns than
traditional assets such as government debt, at only modest additional risk.
This is the argument brought forward by, amongst others, de Beaufort et al.
(2002) and Grava (2004). At the same time, the rapid growth of the market
for credit derivatives has lowered ‘barriers to entry’ to the credit market for
non-traditional ﬁnanciers. This trend has in particular enabled investors to
‘buy’ exposure in sectors to which they otherwise would not have had access
(such as small- and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs). This last argument
is particularly relevant for other public and private investors, as central
banks mostly shy away from derivatives.
Moreover, several studies argue not only that the expected return on
investment grade credit is higher than the expected return on similar
government bonds, but that the risk within a single currency market is also
lower, as a result of negative correlations between spreads and the level of
government yields (see, for instance, Loeys and Coughlan 1999), although it
is not clear if this view is maintained in light of the recent ﬁnancial markets
turmoil. Credit risk can also be a hedge for currency risk, and vice versa, as
demonstrated by Gould and Jiltsov (2004). Given the large amounts of
currency risk in a typical central bank balance sheet, this result is potentially
very relevant for central banks. The intuition is that certain currencies act as
a safe haven and are in strong demand after a credit event in other currency
markets. A particularly good hedge was found in the Swiss franc versus USD
corporate bonds.
In both of these studies, risk is measured by the standard deviation of
return and, hence, it is implicitly assumed that portfolio returns are normally
distributed. This is not necessarily appropriate for credit risk – indeed,
this is the motivation for devoting a separate chapter to credit risk –
although Loeys and Coughlan (1999) argue that the return distribution of
a well-diversiﬁed high-quality credit portfolio is not dissimilar from
119
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 148 ---
government bond portfolios. But even if the assumption of normality is
dropped and the risk in the tail of the return distribution is measured, it can
be shown that, under certain conditions, even a high credit quality portfolio
may show a considerable amount of credit risk, once the conﬁdence level of
common risk measures like value at risk due to credit risk (CreditVaR, but
simply referred to as VaR in the remainder of this chapter, except where
confusion might arise) approaches 100 per cent. It turns out that diversi-
ﬁcation into assets that are more risky in isolation may reduce risks at the
portfolio level.
Clearly, investing in credit instruments is not a free lunch, even if it
reduces risks under most circumstances. Liquidity and security are lower
than in government securities with similar durations. Moreover, the pay-
off of credit instruments such as corporate bonds is highly asymmetric.
The upside is limited (redemption at par), whereas the downside in the
event of a default is much larger. Although the downside risk may be
somewhat mitigated by diversiﬁcation and a semi-active investment style
that tries to avoid defaults by selling bonds once they have been down-
graded beyond a certain threshold (naturally, at the expense of giving up
higher expected returns), default should remain a concern to any central
bank, in particular because it may harm its reputation. The determinants
of credit spreads and expected excess returns – in particular the gap
between spreads and expected default losses (‘credit spread puzzle’) – have
attracted a lot of research. Some evidence seems to indicate that an
investor is mainly compensated for insufﬁcient diversiﬁcation opportun-
ities and, hence, for tail risk events, i.e. defaults, even of investment grade
issuers (Box 3.1).
Moreover, investing in credit instruments has resource implications, not
only for front ofﬁce and risk management areas, but all the way to the
decision-making bodies, that need to spend time and effort in under-
standing different and more complex instruments than traditionally used.
Although there are positive spin-offs from this ‘intellectual investment’,
the time spent on non-core tasks such as credit investments naturally
reduces the time that can be devoted to the core activities of the central
bank. This explains why a central bank credit portfolio is likely to consist
at most of fairly ‘plain-vanilla’ credit instruments only, such as deposits,
corporate bonds and, more remote, credit default swaps (CDS). The same
is true for other conservative investors, in particular if investing is not core
business.
120
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 149 ---
Box 3.1. Credit spreads and the limitations to diversiﬁcation
It is widely accepted that diversiﬁcation of credit portfolios is more difﬁcult and, at the
same time, more important than for e.g. equity portfolios. It is more important because of
the asymmetric return distribution of credits: a single default can easily offset positive
returns from all other assets in the portfolio, even when the number of ‘names’ in the
portfolio is large and individual obligor weights are correspondingly small. In an equity
portfolio, the probability of a single stock suffering large losses may be higher, but such
losses are more likely to be compensated by positive returns on other stocks, since their
upside is much higher than for credits.
Diversiﬁcation of credit risk comes in at least three dimensions: by sector, by region and
by individual name. Each of these is probably more difﬁcult than for equity exposure, but it
seems particularly problematic for sector diversiﬁcation. The euro corporate bond market is
dominated by ﬁnancials, which cover approximately one-third of the overall investment
grade market. Excluding BBB-rated issuers – which may be relevant for a conservative
investor like a central bank – the dominance of ﬁnancials becomes even stronger: around
50 per cent of the AAA–A corporate debt in euros is issued by ﬁnancials (source: iBoxx EUR
corporates senior index, December 31, 2007), even though non-ﬁnancial companies are
increasingly being rated and gaining in importance (ECB 2004b). At present, the three
largest sectors – ﬁnancials, utilities and telecom – cover around 75 per cent of the
investment grade market. Clearly, correlations within sectors are typically higher than
among issuers in different sectors. For this reason, the ‘market portfolio’, the cornerstone
of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), may not be the optimal investment portfolio. This
becomes apparent also when one realizes that the market portfolio is to a large extent
supply driven: heavily indebted and therefore risky companies have larger weights in the
market and in market indices.
The difﬁculties of diversiﬁcation have triggered research into the question whether
credit spreads reﬂect idiosyncratic risk. According to the CAPM, an equity investor is
rewarded for exposure to (general) market risk only. For credits, a compensation for
speciﬁc risk may be justiﬁed if idiosyncratic risks cannot be fully diversiﬁed away. Pro-
ponents of this theory are, among other people, Amato and Remolona (2003), who
essentially study name concentration. They argue that even a credit portfolio with 300
names may be poorly diversiﬁed (based on hypothetical portfolios, with individual assets
comparable to BBB). While other factors – expected losses, liquidity, taxes – help to explain
some of the credit spread, they argue that the limitations to diversiﬁcation are the largest
contributor.
The aim of this section is not to discuss the pros and cons of credit in
central bank portfolios at length. Rather, it is noted that there may be good
arguments to invest some of the central bank reserves in credit instruments,
and that this is increasingly happening in practice. The arguments for and
against are not the same for all central banks and depend, inter alia, on the
size of reserves, the risk tolerance and resources of the central bank. The
121
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 150 ---
ECB’s investment-related exposure to credit risk is limited and mainly
comes from short-term bank deposits and investments in agencies, senior
unsecured bank bonds and covered bonds. Evidently, the risk rises if gov-
ernment bonds can no longer be considered credit risk free, which may be
a valid approach for stress testing, as e.g. recommended in principle 13
of the BCBS (2000b) Principles for the management of credit risk: ‘Banks
should . . . assess their credit risk exposures under stressful conditions.’ This
assumption will also be used for the simulation exercises in this chapter.
A central bank exposed to credit risk should consider, like any other
investor, the purchase or in-house development of a portfolio credit risk
model that captures the asymmetry and fat tails of credit return distribu-
tions. As outlined in the next section, the structure of these models is very
different from market risk models, that have by now become commonplace
also in central banks. Within the Eurosystem, only a few central banks have
practical experience with credit risk modelling, and so far they are used
mainly for reporting. In the future, they are likely to be used for a variety of
other reasons as well, including limit setting and strategic asset allocation
decisions, thereby making the trade-off between market and credit risks.
3. The ECB’s approach towards credit risk modelling: issues
and parameter choices
3.1 Motivation
Credit risk models are generally very different in nature from the market
risk models that are discussed in Chapters 2 and 4 of this book. Credit risk
models also suffer from serious data limitations: defaults are rare events
and correlated defaults are even rarer. This makes it problematic to derive
statistically robust and reliable estimates of credit risk. For portfolios
dominated by government bonds, the data problem is even more challen-
ging. Moreover, the impact of a credit event – default or downgrade – is
potentially very large and can easily erase one year of performance or more.
Given the limited upside of credit instruments, the return distribution of
credit instruments is very asymmetric to the downside and has a fat tail.
While the normal distribution may be a reasonable assumption for the
return of many ‘market’ instruments with approximately linear pay-off (i.e.
non option-like) structures, this is clearly inappropriate for credit risk,
except perhaps under very special circumstances.
122
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 151 ---
There are a number of competing approaches to model credit risk, each
with their own strengths and weaknesses. The purpose of this chapter is not
to give an overview of various approaches – the interested reader is referred
to a growing list of textbooks1 – but to describe and motivate the ECB’s
approach, with a focus on issues and parameters that are particularly relevant
for central banks and other public investors.
The selection of a credit risk model at the ECB was driven by theoretical as
well as practical considerations. It was foreseen that the model would pri-
marily be used for ex post risk assessments, and that it might be integrated in
strategic asset allocation decisions (see Chapter 2) and be employed for limit
setting (Chapter 4), but it was considered unlikely that the model would be
used for trading. This setting has a number of implications, two of which are
worth mentioning here. The ﬁrst is that speed of calculations does not have a
very high priority. A simulation-based approach can therefore be used, which
can be made very ﬂexible and intuitive, also for non-insiders, even if the
technical details may be complex. The second implication is that there is no
need for a very precise pricing model; for our purpose, a crude approxima-
tion of (relative) prices based on ratings and generic credit curves is sufﬁcient.
Given that, in addition, all issuers and counterparties of the ECB are rated by
at least one of the major rating agencies, it is natural to use a ratings- and
simulation-based approach for credit risk modelling.
At the time the decision was made to model credit risk more formally –
around 2005 – an off-the-shelf system already existed that seemed to fulﬁll
most of the ECB’s requirements and needs, CreditManager from the
RiskMetrics Group, based on the well-known CreditMetrics methodology
(Gupton et al. 1997). It was, however, decided to develop an in-house
system. Aside from the more general considerations regarding the choice
between build and buy, discussed in Chapter 4, a particular argument in
favour of an in-house development was the learning experience in terms of
modelling and improved understanding of credit markets. At the time, these
were fairly underdeveloped areas of expertise, which deserved more atten-
tion. Moreover, commercial systems seemed primarily targeted at ‘pure’
asset managers and investors, and were considered not necessarily optimal
for central bank portfolios.
At the same time, it was recognized that an in-house model does not
undergo rigorous testing by the market. It was therefore decided to
1 This list includes Bluhm et al. (2003), Cossin and Pirotte (2007), Dufﬁe and Singleton (2003), Lando (2004),
Saunders and Allen (2002). A particularly good introduction for practitioners is Ramaswamy (2004a).
123
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 152 ---
‘benchmark’ the model against similar models used by several Eurosystem
NCBs. This benchmark study has culminated in an ECB Occasional Paper
by a Task Force of the Markets Operations Committee of the European
System of Central Banks (2007). Some of its main ﬁndings are also dis-
cussed in this chapter.
There are some apparent limitations to the use of external ratings, most of
which have been well known for many years (see for example BCBS 2000a).
Despite these limitations, ratings are still believed to add value and are
considered an efﬁcient instrument for resource-constrained investors, such as
central banks, although they should not and are not taken as a substitute for
own risk analysis. When treated with care, an external rating can be used as an
initial assessment of credit risk. In order to reduce the risk of using an overly
optimistic rating, a second-best rating rule is in place (see also Chapter 4).
In what follows, a risk horizon of one year is assumed, although longer
or shorter horizons can also be considered. Note that rating agencies claim
that their ratings reﬂect a ‘through-the-cycle’ opinion of credit risk, which
obviously impacts the migration probabilities. Actual probabilities over a
one-year point-in-time horizon ﬂuctuate around the through-the-cycle
averages and depend on economic and ﬁnancial market conditions. The
ECB’s credit risk model distinguishes eight rating levels: AAA, AA, A, BBB,
BB, B, CCC-C and D (¼ default, all using the S&P/Fitch classiﬁcation). As
explained in detail in Chapter 4, one of the eligibility criteria for issuers and
counterparties is that they have at least one rating (of a certain level) by one
of the major rating agencies. Consequently, the initial rating of each obligor
in the portfolios is known and can be mapped onto one of the eight rating
levels. Probabilities of default and up- or downgrades for all obligors are
readily obtained from historical default and migration studies and sum-
marized in so-called ‘migration (or transition) matrices’, provided the
maturities of the positions exceed the horizon of the migration probabilities
(if not, adjustments will have to be made that are discussed in the next
section). These matrices are published and updated at least annually by all
the rating agencies. It is important to realize that the ECB model does not
provide PD estimates; instead, PDs are important input parameters.2 Given
also the magnitude of credit spreads and recovery rates, it is relatively easy
to estimate the expected value and, hence, expected credit loss over a given
horizon for every obligor in portfolio. The horizon is set at one year. The
2 The most common alternative approaches are estimating these probabilities from bond prices and spreads, using a
reduced form model, and from the volatility of stock prices, using a structured model in the spirit of Merton (1974).
124
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 153 ---
derivation of summary statistics other than expected loss involves more
steps and is discussed in the next sections. A distinction is made between
those results that can be derived analytically and those for which simulation
is needed.
3.2 Analytical results
The core of the ECB’s credit risk model is a large-scale simulation engine,
but some results – expected loss and unexpected loss – are also derived
analytically. Whenever available, analytical results are preferred over simu-
lation results, which are essentially random and therefore subject to ﬁnite-
sample noise. Moreover, analytical results play an important role in the
validation of simulation results, since expected and unexpected losses are
also estimated from the simulation output. In order to formalize the ana-
lytical derivation of expected loss, already touched upon in the previous
section, it is useful to introduce a number of concepts that will facilitate
notation, in particular for the derivation of unexpected loss.
Deﬁne the forward value FV as the value of a position that is found by
moving one year forward in time, while keeping the rating of the obligor
unchanged. It is computed by discounting all cash ﬂows at the relevant
discount rate. Formally, for a position in obligor i and portfolio P:
FVi ¼
X
j
CFijdf icri tij
 
ð3:1Þ
FVP ¼
X
n
i¼1
FVi
ð3:2Þ
Here, CFij represents the jth cash ﬂow (in EUR) by obligor i, tij is the time
(in years) of the cash ﬂow and df cr(t) is the one-year forward discount
factor for a cash ﬂow at time t from an obligor with a credit rating equal to
cr (icri is the initial credit rating of obligor i). This discount rate is derived
from the relevant spot (zero coupon) rates y at maturities 1 and t years.
Assuming, in addition, that any cash ﬂows received during the year are not
reinvested, so that the value of any of these cash ﬂows at time t ¼ 1 is simply
equal to the cash ﬂow itself, the expression for the forward discount factors,
using continuous compounding, is as follows:
df cr tð Þ ¼
exp ycr 1
ð Þ  t  ycr tð Þ
½
;
t > 1
1;
t 	 1

ð3:3Þ
125
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 154 ---
The conditional forward value CFV is the forward value of a position,
conditional upon a rating change:
CFV fcr
i
¼
P
j
CFijdf fcr tij
 
;
fcr 6¼ D
Nomirri;
fcr ¼ D
(
ð3:4Þ
In this expression, fcr is the forward credit rating (D is default), Nomi is the
nominal investment (in EUR) in obligor i and rri is the recovery rate (in per
cent) of obligor i.
Finally, the expected forward value EFV is the forward value of the position,
taking into account all expected rating changes. It is therefore a weighted
average of conditional forward values, with weights equal to the probabilities
of migration p:
EFVi ¼
X
fcr
p fcr icri
j
ð
ÞCFV fcr
i
ð3:5Þ
With these concepts, we can simply write the expected (forward) loss EL as
the differences between the forward and expected portfolio value:
ELP ¼ FVP 
X
n
i¼1
EFVi
ð3:6Þ
Note that expected loss is deﬁned as the difference between two portfolio
values, both at time t ¼ 1. Hence, the current market value of the portfolio
is not used; if it were, expected loss would be ‘biased’ by the time return
(carry and possibly roll-down) of the portfolio. Deﬁning expected loss as in
equation (3.6) ensures a ‘pure’ credit risk concept. It is useful to decompose
expected loss into the contribution of migration (up- and downgrades) and
default. Substituting (3.1), (3.2), (3.4) and (3.5) in (3.6) and rearranging, it
is easy to verify that
ELP ¼
X
n
i¼1
X
fcr6¼D
p fcr icri
j
ð
Þ
X
j
CFij df icri tij
 
 df fcr tij
 


|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
contribution of migration
8
>
>
>
>
<
>
>
>
>
:
þ p D icri
j
ð
Þ
X
j
CFijdf icri tij
 
 Nomirri
 
!
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
contribution of default
9
>
>
>
>
=
>
>
>
>
;
ð3:7Þ
126
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 155 ---
The ﬁrst element of the right-hand side of equation (3.7) represents the
contribution of migration per obligor. It is equal to a probability-weighted
average of the change in forward value of each cash ﬂow. For high-quality
portfolios, a reasonably good ﬁrst-order approximation of this expression is
usually found by multiplying the modiﬁed duration of the bond one year
forward by the change in the forward credit spread. The second element is
the contribution of default.
Unexpected loss UL, deﬁned as the standard deviation of losses in excess
of the expected loss, is derived in a similar way, although the calculations
are more involved and need assumptions on the co-movement of ratings.
Building on the concepts already deﬁned, a convenient way to compute
unexpected loss analytically involves the computation of standard devia-
tions of all two-obligor subportfolios (of which there are n [n  1] / 2), as
well as individual obligor standard deviations. First note that, by analogy of
expected loss, the variance (unexpected loss squared) of each individual
position is given by
UL2
i ¼
X
fcr
p fcr icri
j
ð
Þ CFV fcr
i

2
 EFV 2
i
ð3:8Þ
In this formula, it is assumed that there is uncertainty only in the ratings
one year forward, and that conditional forward values of each position are
known. It could be argued that there is also uncertainty in these values, in
particular the recovery value, in which case the standard deviation needs to
be added to the conditional forward values.
A similar calculation can be made for each two-obligor portfolio, but
the probabilities of migration to each of the 8 · 8 possible rating combina-
tions depend on the joint probability distributions of ratings. Rather than
modelling this directly, it is common and convenient to assume that rating
changes are driven by an underlying asset return x and to model joint asset
returns as standard bivariate normal with a given correlation q, known as
asset correlation. The intuition of this approach should become clear in the
next section on simulation. The joint probability of migrating to ratings fcri
and fcrj, given initial ratings icri and icrj, and correlation pij equals
p fcri; fcrj icri; icrj; pij



¼
Z
bþ
fcri icri
j
b
fcri icri
j
Z
bþ
fcrj icrj
j
b
fcrj icrj
j
1
2p
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
1  q2
ij
q
exp 1
2 x2
i þ x2
j  2qijxixj




dxjdxi
ð3:9Þ
127
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 156 ---
where the b represent the boundaries for rating migrations from a standard
normal distribution (also explained in the next section). The probabilities
allow the variance computation for each two-obligor portfolio:
UL2
iþj ¼
X
fcri
X
fcrj
p fcri; fcrj icri; icrj; pij



CFV fcri
i
þ CFV
fcrj
j

2
 EFVi þ EFVj

2
ð3:10Þ
With the results from equations (3.8)–(3.10), it is easy to compute the
unexpected loss of the portfolio:3
ULP ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
X
n1
i¼1
X
n
j¼iþ1
UL2
iþj  n  2
ð
Þ
X
n
i¼1
UL2
i
v
u
u
t
ð3:11Þ
3.3 Simulation approach
Expected and unexpected loss capture only the ﬁrst two moments of the
credit loss distribution. In fact, formally, expected loss is not even a risk
measure, as risk is by deﬁnition restricted to unexpected events. Unexpected
loss measures the standard deviation of losses and is also of relatively
limited use, as a credit loss distribution is skewed and fat tailed. In order to
derive more meaningful (tail) risk measures such as VaR and ES (expected
shortfall), a simulation approach is needed.
To understand the simulation approach at the portfolio level, consider
ﬁrst a single bond with a known initial rating, e.g. A. Over a one-year
period, there is a high probability that the rating remains unchanged. There
is also a (smaller) probability that the bond is upgraded to AA, or even to
AAA, and, conversely, that it is downgraded or even that the issuer defaults.
Assume that rating changes are driven by an underlying asset value of the
issuer, the same as was used for the analytical derivation of unexpected loss
in the previous section. The bond is upgraded if the asset value increases
3 This result is derived from a standard result in statistics. If X1, . . . , Xn are all normal random variables with variances
r2
i and covariances rij, then Y ¼ RXi is also normal and has variance equal to r2
Y ¼ P
n
i¼1
r2
i þ 2 P
n1
i¼1
P
n
j¼iþ1
rij.
Rearranging the formula for a two-asset portfolio Xi þ Xj yields an expression for each covariance pair:
rij ¼ 1
2 r2
iþj  r2
i  r2
j


which, when substituted back into the formula for r2
Y , gives the desired result.
128
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 157 ---
beyond a certain threshold and downgraded in case of a large decrease in
asset value. The thresholds are set such that the ratings derived from the
(pseudo-) random asset returns converge to the migration probabilities,
given a certain density for the asset returns. For the latter, it is common to
assume standard normally distributed asset returns, and this is also the
approach of the ECB model, although other densities may be used as well.4
Note that normal asset returns do not imply that migrations and therefore
bond prices are normally distributed. The process is illustrated using actual
migration probabilities from a recent S&P study in Table 3.1.
The table shows, for instance, that the simulated rating remains
unchanged, for simulated asset returns between thresholds b
A A
j ¼ 1:53
and bþ
A A
j ¼ 2:01. If the simulated asset return is between b
AA A
j ¼ 2:01 and
bþ
AA A
j ¼ 3:35, the bond is upgraded to AA, and if it exceeds b
AAA A
j ¼ 3:35,
the bond is upgraded to AAA. Note that bþ
fcr icr
j
¼ b
fcrþ1 icr
j
for any com-
bination of initial credit rating icr and forward credit rating fcr (where ‘þ1’
refers to the next highest rating). The same levels are also used in the
analytical derivation of unexpected loss in equation (3.9). The mechanism
applies to downgrades. It is easy to verify that the simulated frequency of
ratings should converge to the migration probabilities. Combining simu-
lated ratings with yield spreads and recovery rates yields asymptotically the
Table 3.1 Migration probabilities and standard normal boundaries for bond with initial rating A
Rating after one
year (fcr)
D
CCC-C
B
BB
BBB
A
AA
AAA
Migration
probability
0.06%
0.03%
0.17%
0.41%
5.63%
91.49%
2.17%
0.04%
Cumulative
probability
0.06%
0.09%
0.26%
0.67%
6.30%
97.79%
99.96%
100.00%
Lower migration
boundary (b
fcrjA)
1
3.24
3.12
2.79
2.47
1.53
2.01
3.35
Upper migration
boundary (bþ
fcrjA)
3.24
3.12
2.79
2.47
1.53
2.01
3.35
þ1
Source: Standard & Poor’s (2008a, Table 6 – adjusted for withdrawn ratings).
4 The normal distribution of asset returns is merely used for convenience, because the only determinant of co-
dependence is the correlation. It is quite common to use the normal distribution, but in theory alternative probability
distributions for asset returns can also be used. These do, however, increase the complexity of the model.
129
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 158 ---
same expected loss as in the analytic approach. The simulation approach is
illustrated graphically in Figure 3.1.
At the portfolio level, random asset returns are sampled independently
and subsequently transformed into correlated returns. This is achieved via a
Cholesky decomposition of the correlation matrix into an upper and a
lower triangular matrix and by subsequently pre-multiplying the vector of
independent asset returns (of length n) by the lower triangular matrix (of
dimension n · n).5 The result is a vector of correlated asset returns, each of
which is converted into a rating using the approach outlined above.
Assuming deterministic spread curves, the ratings are subsequently used to
reprice each position in the portfolio. The model can also be used for multi-
step simulations, whereby the year is broken down in several subperiods, or
b +
D|A b +
CCC|Ab +
B|A b +
BB|A b +
BBB|A
b –
AA|A
b –
AAA|A
Asset return over horizon
Probability density
Default
Downgrade to BBB
Upgrade to AA
Rating unchanged (A)
Figure 3.1
Asset value and migration (probabilities not according to scale).
5 A correlation matrix R is decomposed into a lower triangular L and an upper triangular matrix L0 in such a way that
R ¼ LL0. A vector of independent random returns x is transformed into a vector of correlated returns xc ¼ Lx.
It is easy to see that xc has zero mean, because x has zero mean, and a correlation matrix equal to
E xc xc
ð
Þ0


¼ E Lxx0L0
ð
Þ0¼ LE xx0
ð
ÞL ¼ LIL0 ¼ LL0 ¼ R, as desired. Since correlation matrices are symmetric and
positive-deﬁnite, the Cholesky decomposition exists. Note, however, that the decomposition is not unique. It is, for
example, easily veriﬁed that if L ¼
l11
0
  
0
l21
l22
..
.
...
...
..
.
..
.
0
ln1
  
ln2
lnn
0
B
B
B
@
1
C
C
C
A is a valid lower triangular matrix, then so is
L ¼
l11
0
  
0
l21
l22
..
.
...
..
.
..
.
..
.
0
ln1
  
ln2
lnn
0
B
B
B
@
1
C
C
C
A. Any of these may be used to transform uncorrelated returns into correlated returns.
130
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 159 ---
where the horizon consists of several one-year periods. In those cases, the
vector of returns becomes a matrix (of dimension n · # periods), but
otherwise the approach is essentially the same as for a one-step simulation.
As shown in Chapter 2, it is also possible to use stochastic spreads, thus
integrating market (spread) and credit risk, but this chapter considers
deterministic spreads only.
In order to generate reliable estimates of (tail) risk measures, a large
number of iterations are needed, but the number can be reduced by
applying importance sampling techniques. Importance sampling is based on
the idea that one is really only concerned with the tail of the distribution,
and should therefore sample more observations from the tail than from the
rest of the distribution. With importance sampling, the original distribution
from which observations are drawn is transformed into a distribution which
increases the likelihood that ‘important’ observations are drawn. These
observations are then weighted by the likelihood ratio to ensure that esti-
mates are unbiased. The transformation is done by shifting the mean of the
distribution. Technical details of importance sampling are discussed in
Chapter 10.
The simulation approach is summarized in the following steps:
Step 0 Create a matrix (of dimension # names · # ratings), consisting of
the conditional forward values of the investment in each obligor
under each possible rating realization, as given by equation (3.4).
Step 1 Generate n independent (pseudo-) random returns from a standard
normal distribution, but sampling with a higher probability from
the tail of the distribution. Store the results in a vector x.
Step 2 Transform the vector of independent returns into a vector of
correlated
returns
xc
via
xc
¼
Lx,
where
LL0 ¼ R ¼
1
q21
  
q1n
q21
1
..
.
..
.
..
.
..
.
..
.
qn1;n
qn1
  
qn;n1
1
0
B
B
B
B
@
1
C
C
C
C
A
is the (symmetric) correlation matrix.
Step 3 Transform the vector of correlated returns into a vector of ratings
via fcri ¼ arg max
cr
1 xc
i  b
cr icri
j
h
i
· 1 xc
i < bþ
cr icri
j
h
i
n
o
, where 1[·] is an
indicator function, equal to unity whenever the statement in
brackets is true, and zero otherwise.
Step 4 Select, in each row of the matrix created in step 0, the entry
(conditional forward value) corresponding to the rating simulated
131
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 160 ---
in step 3. Compute the simulated (forward) portfolio value SFV ð1Þ
P
as the sum of these values, where the (1) indicates that this is the
ﬁrst simulation result.
Step 5 Repeat steps 1–4 many times and store the simulated portfolio
values SFV ðiÞ
P .
Step 6 Sort the vector of simulated portfolio values in ascending order and
compute summary statistics (sim is the number of iterations):
 SFVP ¼
1
sim
P
sim
i¼1
SFV ðiÞ
P ;
 ELðsÞ ¼ FVP  SFVP;
 ULðsÞ ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
1
sim
P
sim
i¼1
SFV ðiÞ
P

2
 SFVP

2
s
;
 VaR ¼ SFVP  SFV ðaÞ
P ; where a ¼ sim · (1  conﬁdence level)
rounded to the nearest integer,
 ES ¼ SFVP 
1
a1
P
a1
i¼1
SFV ðiÞ
P :
Each of these can also be expressed as a percentage of FVP, the
market value in one year time if ratings remain unchanged.
Step 7 Finally, the results may be used to ﬁt a curve through the tail of the
distribution to avoid extreme ‘jumps’ in time series of VaR or ES.
This, however, is an art as much as science for which there is no
‘one size ﬁts all’ approach.6
The creation of a matrix with all conditional forward values in step 0
makes the simulation very fast and efﬁcient. Without such a matrix, it would
be necessary to reprice every position within the loop (steps 1-4) and com-
puting time would increase signiﬁcantly. If programmed efﬁciently, even a
simulation with 1,000,000 iterations need not take more than one minute on
a modern computer. For many portfolios, this number of iterations is more
than enough and fairly accurate estimates of credit risk are obtained, even at
the highest conﬁdence levels. In practice, therefore, importance sampling or
other variance reduction techniques are not always needed.
6 A possible strategy, depending on the composition of the portfolio, is to make use of a well-known result by Vasicek
(1991), who found that the cumulative loss distribution of an inﬁnitely granular portfolio in default mode (no
recovery) is in the limit equal to F x
ð Þ ¼ N
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
1q
p
N1 x
ð ÞN1 pd
ð
Þ
ﬃﬃq
p


, where q is the (positive) asset correlation and N (x)
denotes the cumulative standard normal distribution (N–1 being its inverse) evaluated at x, representing the loss as a
proportion of the portfolio market value, i.e. the negative of the portfolio return.
132
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 161 ---
VaR and ES for credit risk are typically computed at higher conﬁdence
levels than for market risk. This is a common approach, despite increasing
parameter uncertainty, also for commercial issuers aiming at very low
probabilities of default to ensure a high credit rating. For instance, a 99.9
per cent conﬁdence level of no default corresponds only to approximately
an A rating. The Basel II formulas for the Internal Ratings Based (IRB)
approach compute capital requirements for credit risk at the 99.9 per cent
conﬁdence level as well, whereas a 99 per cent conﬁdence level is applied to
determine the capital requirements for market risk (BCBS 2006b). Arguably,
a central bank – with reputation as its main asset – should aim for high
conﬁdence levels, also in comparison with commercial institutions.
The discussion of the analytical and simulation approach has so far
largely ignored the choice of parameters and data sources. There are,
however, a number of additional complexities related to data and para-
meters, in particular for central banks and other conservative investors. The
remainder of this section is therefore devoted to a discussion of the main
parameters of the model, i.e. the probabilities of migration (including
default), asset correlations and recovery rates. This discussion is not
restricted to the ECB, but includes a comparison with other Eurosystem
central banks, more details of which can be found in the paper by the Task
Force of the Market Operations Committee of the European System of
Central Banks (2007).
3.4 Probabilities of default/migration
Probabilities of default and migration can be obtained from one of the
major rating agencies, which publish updated migration matrices fre-
quently. These probabilities typically have a one-year horizon, i.e. equal to
the standard risk horizon of the model. As the migration matrices of the
rating agencies are normally fairly similar for any given market segment, the
selection of a particular rating agency does not seem terribly important,
although clearly, in order to generate meaningful time series, one should
try to use the same source as much as possible. Also in practice there is not
a clear preference among Eurosystem NCBs for any of the three major
agencies, Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch.
The methodologies used by the rating agencies for estimating default and
migration probabilities rely on counting the number of migrations for a
given rating within a calendar year. This number is divided by the total
number of obligors with the initial rating and corrected for ratings that have
133
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 162 ---
been withdrawn during the year (‘cohort approach’). The approach is fairly
straightforward and transparent, but there are several caveats, some of
which are of particular relevance to central banks and other investors with
high-quality, short-duration assets. The main caveats are related to the
probabilities of default for the highest ratings, and the need to scale prob-
abilities for periods shorter than one year. Ideally, these are addressed
directly via the data.7 If one only has access to the migration matrices, but
not to a database of ratings, then other solutions are needed. A third caveat,
not related to the methodology of estimating the migration matrix, is the
distinction between sovereign and corporate ratings, and the limitations of
migration probabilities for sovereign ratings. Each of these is discussed
below.
3.4.1 Distinction between sovereign and corporate ratings
Most of the empirical work published by the rating agencies is based on
corporate ratings (for which there is far more data), but central bank
portfolios contain mostly government bonds. It is well known that default
and migration probabilities for sovereign issuers are different from pro-
babilities for corporate issuers. Comparing, for instance, the latest updates
of migration probabilities by Standard & Poor’s (2008a and 2008b) reveals
that while, historically since 1981, some AA and A corporate issuers have
defaulted over a one-year horizon (with frequencies equal to one and six
basis points, respectively, see Standard & Poor’s 2008a, table 6), not a single
investment grade sovereign issuer has ever defaulted over a one-year horizon
(based on observations since 1975, see Standard & Poor’s 2008b, table 1.
Even after 10 years, A or better-rated sovereigns did not default (Standard &
Poor’s 2008b, table 5).
The distinction between sovereign and corporate issuers is also reﬂected
in, for instance, the risk classiﬁcation used in Basel I and II (Standardized
Approach). Except for ratings BBþ to BB and ratings below B, the risk
weights for corporates are higher than for equally rated sovereigns (Table 3.2).
While the absence of defaults is a comforting result, one should also be aware
7 Instead of counting the number of defaults and migrations in a certain period of time, one could measure the time
until default or migration, and derive a ‘hazard rate’ or ‘default intensity’. With these, one can easily derive the
expected time until default or downgrade for every rating class and, conversely, the probability of default or
downgrade in any given time period. A related approach is to estimate (continuous time) generator matrices directly
from the data (Lando and Skødeberg 2002), rather than via an approximation of a given discrete time migration
matrix. The estimation of generator matrices takes into account the exact timing of each rating migration and
therefore uses more information than traditional approaches.
134
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 163 ---
that it is based on a limited number of observations. Hence, the statistical
signiﬁcance of the result is limited. Moreover, the rating agencies themselves
acknowledge that the process of rating sovereigns is considerably more com-
plex and subjective than for rating corporates. As a result, many investors use
migration probabilities derived from corporate issuers, which leads to con-
servative, but probably more robust risk estimates. The same approach is
adopted by the ECB and several other Eurosystem NCBs.
3.4.2 Probabilities of default for highest ratings
Defaults of AAA (or even AA) corporate (let alone sovereign) issuers rarely
happen over the course of one year. As a result, the probabilities of default
(PDs) for these ratings estimated by the rating agencies are (very close to)
zero. Clearly, this does not necessarily imply that the actual default risk is
zero, especially for non-AAA rated issuers. After all, it seems reasonable to
assume that the default risk of a AA issuer is higher than the default risk of
a AAA issuer. AAA issuers may default as well, even if none ever did.
Determining default probabilities for the highest ratings is difﬁcult and
largely subjective, yet has a signiﬁcant impact on the credit risk assessment
of a central bank – or similar portfolio. Ramaswamy (2004a, exhibit 5.4)
proposes positive default probabilities by ﬁrst selecting, for each rating level,
the highest empirical PD from either Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s. In
addition he proposes some ad hoc approach to ensure that the ranking of
ratings is respected, i.e. PD (AAA) < PD (AAþ), etc. In his example, such
adjustments are needed down to rating A–. For instance, he proposes to set
the PD for AAA issuers to one basis point, for AA– to four basis points and
for A– to ten basis points (all at an annual horizon). Although the main
purpose of the exercise is merely to be able to estimate default correlations,
the proposed PDs seem not unreasonable, also for other purposes such as
Table 3.2 Risk-weighting of Standardized Approach under Basel II
Sovereigns
Corporates
AAA to AA
0%
20%
Aþ to A
20%
50%
BBBþ to BBB
50%
100%
BBþ to BB
100%
Bþ to B
150%
Below B
150%
Source: BCBS (2006b).
135
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 164 ---
stress testing. Another, statistically more robust approach has recently been
proposed by Pluto and Tasche (2006). They propose estimating conﬁdence
intervals for each PD such that the probability of ﬁnding not more than the
empirical number of defaults is very small. The PD is set equal to the upper
bound of the conﬁdence interval. Hence, this approach cannot be used to
compute expected losses. However, it does ensure positive PDs, even if the
empirical number of defaults is zero. Moreover, the PD decreases as the
sample size of non-defaulted issuers increases, as it should. The method-
ology also respects the ranking of ratings. The approach seems not yet
widely used in practice, however.
The ECB system uses the probabilities introduced in Ramaswamy (2004a)
for certain analyses, thus manually revising the PDs for AAA and AA rated
obligors upwards. In order to ensure that migration probabilities add up to
1, the probabilities that ratings remain unchanged (diagonal on the matrix)
are reduced accordingly. Within the Eurosystem, several other central banks
apply a similar approach, although some make smaller adjustments to
sovereign issuers, or no adjustment at all. All respect the ranking of ratings
in the sense that the PD of an issuer with a certain rating is higher than the
PD of an issuer with a better rating.
3.4.3 Default probabilities for low duration assets
Central bank portfolios normally have low durations and, hence, a sub-
stantial proportion is invested in assets – bills, discount notes, deposits –
with maturities less than one year, i.e. shorter than the risk horizon and
shorter than the default probabilities obtained from the rating agencies.
Clearly, probabilities of default increase with maturity, and therefore it may
be necessary to scale annual PDs for assets with short maturities. Note that
migration risk is irrelevant for instruments with a maturity less than one
year, since the portfolio is assumed static during the year. In what follows, it
is assumed that every position that matures before the end of the horizon is
held in cash for the remainder of the period.
Scaling default probabilities to short horizons can be done in several
ways. The easiest approach is to assume that the conditional probability of
default (or ‘hazard rate’) is constant over time. The only information
needed from the migration matrix is the last column which contains the
annual probabilities of default. For each rating, the probability of default
pd(t) for maturity t < 1 follows directly from the one-year probability pd(1)
using the formula pd(t) ¼ 1  [1  pd(1)]t. This is approximately equal to
pd(1) · t, i.e. scaling the probabilities linearly with time.
136
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 165 ---
Alternatively, one may wish to use all the information embedded in the
migration matrix, taking into account that default probabilities are not
constant over time, but increase as a result of downgrades. An approach
advocated by the Task Force of the Market Operations Committee (2007)
involves the computation of the root of the migration matrix from a
decomposition in eigenvalues and eigenvectors.8 This approach assumes
that rating migrations are path-independent and the probabilities are
constant over time. This is a very common assumption, despite empirical
evidence to the contrary (see, for instance, Nickell et al. 2000).
Although theoretically appealing, ﬁnding and using the root of the
migration matrix poses a number of problems in practice. These are
fourfold:
 First, if one or more of the eigenvalues is negative (or even complex),
then a real root of the migration matrix does not exist. The typical
migration matrix is diagonally dominant – the largest probabilities in
each row are on the diagonal – and therefore, in practice, its eigenvalues
are real and positive, but this is not guaranteed.
 Second, the eigenvalues need not be unique. If this is the case, then the
root of the migration matrix is not unique either. This situation raises
the question which root and which short-duration PDs should be used.
The choice can have a signiﬁcant impact on the simulation results.
 There is a high likelihood that some of the eigenvectors have negative
elements and, consequently, that the root matrix has negative elements as
well. Clearly, in such cases, the root is no longer a valid migration matrix.
 Finally, even if, at a certain point in time, the root of the migration
matrix exists, is unique and is a valid migration matrix, then it may still
be of limited use if the main interest is in time series of credit risk
measures.
Given these practical limitations, it seems better to use an approximation
for the ‘true’ probability of default over short horizons. This can be done in
several ways. One approach is to estimate a ‘generator matrix’ which, when
extrapolated to a one-year horizon, approximates the original migration
matrix as closely as possible (under some predeﬁned criteria), while still
8 Any k · k matrix has k (not necessarily distinct) eigenvalues and corresponding eigenvectors. If C is the matrix of
eigenvectors and K is the matrix with eigenvalues on the diagonal and all other elements equal to zero, then any
symmetric matrix Y (which has only real eigenvalues) can be written as Y ¼ CKC1 (where C1 denotes the inverse
of matrix C). In special cases, a non-symmetric square matrix (such as a migration matrix) can be decomposed in the
same way. The one-month migration matrix follows from M ¼ Y1/12 ¼ CK1/12C1. The right column of M provides
the monthly default probabilities. The matrix for other periods is found analogously.
137
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 166 ---
respecting the conditions for a valid migration matrix (e.g. Israel et al. 2001;
Kreinin and Sidelnikova 2001). An example of this is the approach adopted
by one central bank in the peer group of Eurosystem central banks, which
involves the computation of the ‘closest three-month matrix generator’ to
the one-year matrix. It is calculated numerically by minimizing the sum of
the squared differences between the original one-year migration probabi-
lities and the one-year probabilities generated by raising the three-month
matrix to the power of four. This three-month matrix provides plausible
estimates of the short-term migration probabilities and also generates, in
most situations, small but positive one-year default probabilities for highly
rated issuers. Note, however, that also a numerical solution may not be
unique or a global optimum.
Otherwise, within the peer group very different approaches are used to
‘scale down’ annual default probabilities. These range from scaling linearly
with time to not scaling at all, i.e. applying annual default probabilities also
to assets with shorter maturities, under the assumption that any position
which matures before the end of the horizon, is rolled into a new position
with the same obligor at all times. It is not uncommon to round the
maturities of short duration positions upwards into multiples of one or
three months.
The approach adopted by the ECB is based on the already discussed
assumption that the conditional PD is constant over time. Hence, the PDs
for maturities t are derived from the one-year probabilities only: pd(t) ¼ 1 –
[1 – pd(1)]t. A limitation of this approach, as with any approach that
ignores a large part of the migration matrix, is that it is impossible to
differentiate between one-year positions held until maturity and shorter
positions reinvested in assets of the same initial credit quality (which would
be in a different name, if the original obligor had meanwhile been up- or
downgraded). The implication is that the default risk of short positions is
probably somewhat overstated. This conservative bias is however considered
acceptable.9
For the actual implementation of this approach, the concept of multiple
default states has been introduced. A default may occur in e.g. the ﬁrst
month of the simulation period, in the second month, and so on, leading to
9 One justification for this bias is that a conservative investor like a central bank would normally sell a bond once it has
been downgraded beyond a certain threshold. As this reduces risk in the actual portfolio, a buy-and-hold model of
the portfolio will overestimate the credit risk. To some extent, the two simplifications offset each other. Note also that
most, if not all, approximations used by the members of the peer group lead to conservative estimates of the ‘true’
short term probability of default.
138
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 167 ---
different expected pay-offs, as some positions will have matured and cou-
pons have been received if default occurs later in the year. Each one-year PD
is broken down into probabilities for different sub-periods, and the last
(default) column of the migration matrix is replaced by a number of col-
umns with PDs for these sub-periods. This matrix is referred to as the
‘augmented migration matrix’. The main beneﬁt of this implementation is
that long and short duration positions can be treated in a uniform way and,
if needed, aggregated for individual names. Once the augmented migration
matrix and the corresponding matrix of conditional forward values (step 0
of the simulation procedure) have been derived, it is not necessary to
burden the program code with additional and inefﬁcient if-when statements
(e.g. to test whether a position has a maturity longer or shorter than the risk
horizon).
An example may illustrate the concept of multiple default states. Consider
again the migration probabilities from Table 3.1. The probability that a
single-A issuer defaults over a one-year horizon (6 basis points) is broken
down into probabilities for several sub-periods. Assume that the following
sub-periods are distinguished: (0, 1m], (1m, 3m], (3m, 6m], (6m, 12m].
The choice of sub-periods is another ‘art’ and can be tailored to the needs of
the user and restrictions implied by the portfolio; the example used here is
reasonable, in particular for portfolios with a large share of one-month
instruments (as the ﬁrst portfolio considered in Section 4). The PD of the
ﬁrst sub-period is (conservatively) based on the upper boundary of its time
interval (i.e. one month). The other PDs follow from
PD t1; t2
ð
Þ ¼
1  p
ð
Þt1
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
probability
of survival
up to period t1
1  1  p
ð
Þt2t1


|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
conditional probability
of default in period t1t2
¼ 1  p
ð
Þt1 1  p
ð
Þt2;
3:12
where p equals the one-year PD and t1 and t2 are the boundaries of the
time interval. Note that these represent unconditional PDs. The augmented
ﬁrst row of Table 3.1 would look as shown in Table 3.3. Note that, as
expected, the probabilities for the sub-periods are very close to the original
one-year probability, scaled by the length of the time interval. The rela-
tionship is only approximate, as would become obvious if more decimals
were shown (or if the original PD were larger). Note also that, by con-
struction, the probabilities add up to unity. The corresponding standard
normal boundaries are not shown in the table, as their derivation is the
same as before.
139
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 168 ---
3.5 Recovery rates
The recovery rate measures the proportion of the principal value (and
possibly accrued interest) that is recovered in the event of a default. The
sensitivity of simulation results to this parameter depends on the relative
contributions of default and migration to the overall risk estimate. Clearly,
default is a fairly remote risk for highly rated portfolios. On the other hand,
since migration risk increases almost linearly with duration, and central
bank portfolios typically have low durations, the relative contribution of
default risk to overall credit risk may still be substantial, in particular at very
high conﬁdence levels. The results of the simulation exercise in the next
section conﬁrm this intuition. Consequently, the choice of the recovery rate
needs to be addressed carefully.
Among other things, the recovery on a bond or loan depends on its
seniority and is likely to vary across industries. There is also evidence
that recovery rates for bank loans are on average higher than for bonds
(Moody’s 2004). Some well-known empirical studies on recovery rates are
from Asarnow and Edwards (1995), Altman and Kishore (1996), Carty and
Lieberman (1996) and more recently Altman et al. (2005b). Rating agencies
publish their own studies on recovery rates. Many studies conclude that
recovery rates for senior loans and bonds are in the range 40–50 per cent.
This is also the range that is used by most of the central banks in the ECB’s
peer group. When stochastic recovery rates are used, the mean is in the
same range.
The ECB uses a uniform recovery rate, ﬁxed at 40 per cent of the pri-
ncipal value. A uniform recovery rate is considered sufﬁciently accurate
because the assets in the portfolio are fairly homogeneous, i.e. only senior
debt and mostly government or government-related issuers.
Table 3.3 Original and augmented migration probabilities for bond with initial rating A
‘State of the
world’
D 	 1m
1m < D
	 3m
3m < D
	 6m
6m < D
	 1y
CCC-C
B
BB
BBB
A
AA
AAA
Original
probability
0.06%
0.03%
0.17% 0.41% 5.63% 91.49% 2.17% 0.04%
Augmented
probability
0.005%
0.010%
0.015%
0.030%
0.03%
0.17% 0.41% 5.63% 91.49% 2.17% 0.04%
Source: Standard & Poor’s (2008a, Table 6 – adjusted for withdrawn ratings) and ECB calculations.
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
140
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 169 ---
3.6 Correlations
Correlation measures the extent to which companies default or migrate
together. In the credit risk literature, the parameter often referred to is
default correlation, formally deﬁned as the correlation between default
indicators (1 for default, 0 for non-default) over some period of time,
typically one year. Default correlation can be either positive, for instance
because ﬁrms in the same industry are exposed to the same suppliers or raw
materials, or because ﬁrms in one country are exposed to the same exchange
rate, but it can also be negative, when for example the elimination of a
competitor increases another company’s market share. Default correlation
is difﬁcult to estimate directly, simply because defaults, let alone correlated
defaults, are rare events. Moreover, as illustrated by Lucas (2004), pair-wise
default correlations are also insufﬁcient to quantify credit risk in portfolios
consisting of three assets or more. This is a consequence of the discrete
nature of defaults. For these reasons, correlations of asset returns are used.
It is important to note that asset and default correlation are very different
concepts. Default correlation is related non-linearly to asset correlation, and
tends to be considerably lower (in absolute value).10 While Basel II, for
instance, proposes an asset correlation of up to 24 per cent,11 default cor-
relation is normally only a few per cent. Indeed, Lucas (2004) demonstrates
that for default correlation the full range of 1 to þ1 is only attainable
under very special circumstances.
Other things being equal, risks become more concentrated as asset cor-
relations increase, and the probability of multiple defaults or downgrades
rises. With perfect correlation among all obligors, a portfolio behaves as
a single bond. It should thus come as no surprise that the relation-
ship between asset correlation and credit risk is positive (and non-linear).
Figure 3.2 plots this relationship, using ES as risk measure, for a hypo-
thetical portfolio.
Asset correlations are usually derived from equity returns. This is because
asset returns cannot be observed directly, or only infrequently. In practice, it
is neither possible nor necessary to estimate and use individual correlations
10 The formal relationship between asset and default correlation depends on the joint distribution of the asset returns.
For normally distributed asset returns, the relationship is given in, for instance, Gupton et al. (1997, equations 8.5
and 8.6).
11 Under the Internal Ratings-Based Approach of Basel II, the formula for calculating risk-weighted assets is based on
an asset correlation q equal to q ¼ w 0.12 þ (1  w)0.24, where w ¼ 1e50pd
1e50 . Note that q decreases as pd increases.
141
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 170 ---
for each pair of obligors. First of all, scarcity of data limits the possibility of
calculating large numbers of correlations (n [n  1] / 2 for a portfolio of n
obligors). Secondly, empirical evidence seems to indicate that sector con-
centration is more important than name concentration (see, for instance,
BCBS 2006d). In order to capture the sector concentration, it is necessary to
estimate intra-sector and inter-sector correlations, but it is not necessary to
estimate each pair of intra-sector correlations individually. Inter-sector
correlations can be estimated from equity indices using a factor model.
This approach has its limitations for central bank portfolios, which
mainly consist of bonds issued by (unlisted) governments. Instead, the ECB
model uses the ‘Basel II level’ of 24 per cent for all obligor pairs. Again, there
is some variation in the choice of correlation levels among the peer-group
members. For instance, some central banks prefer to use higher correlations,
even up to 100 per cent, for seemingly closely related issuers, such as the US
Treasury and Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs).
3.7 Credit spreads
The ﬁnal parameter is the (forward) credit spread for different rating levels
and for each currency in portfolio (USD, EUR and JPY). Spreads determine
the mark-to-market loss (gain) in the event of a downgrade (upgrade). The
ECB system loads spreads derived from Bloomberg data. Nelson and Siegel
0
5
10
15
0.00
0.10
0.20
0.30
0.40
0.50
Asset correlation
Expected shortfall (%)
Figure 3.2
Impact of asset correlation on portfolio risk (hypothetical portfolio with 100 issuers rated AAA–A,
conﬁdence level 99.95%). Source: ECB’s own calculations.
142
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 171 ---
(1987) curves are ﬁtted in order to ensure a certain ‘smoothness’ in the
spreads.
Finding reliable data can be a challenge, in particular for lower ratings
and non-USD markets. For instance, Bloomberg provides USD ‘fair market’
credit curves with ratings down to B; for the EUR market, similar curves
are only available for ratings BB or better. The same limitation applies to
credit curves in Reuters. Fortunately, the sensitivity of output to these
assumptions is minor, given the high credit quality of the portfolios and
low one-year migration probabilities to non-investment grade. Still, in some
cases, an ‘expert opinion’ on a reasonable level of spreads in certain non-
investment grade markets is required.
4. Simulation results
The following sections present some empirical results for two very different
portfolios. The ﬁrst portfolio (in the following ‘Portfolio I’) is a subset of
the ECB’s USD portfolio, as it existed some time ago. The portfolio contains
government bonds, bonds issued by the Bank for International Settlements
(BIS), Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) and supranational insti-
tutions – all rated AAA/Aaa – and short-term deposits with approximately
thirty different counterparties, rated A or higher and with an assumed
maturity of one month. Hence, the credit risk of the portfolio is expected to
be low. The modiﬁed duration of the portfolio is low.
The other portfolio (‘Portfolio II’) is ﬁctive. It contains more than sixty
(mainly private) issuers, spread across regions, sectors, ratings as well as
maturity. It is still relatively ‘chunky’ in the sense that the six largest issues
make up almost 50 per cent of the portfolio, but otherwise more diversiﬁed
than Portfolio I. It has a higher modiﬁed duration than Portfolio I. The
lowest rating is Bþ/B1. Figures 3.3a and 3.3b compare the composition of
the two portfolios, by rating as well as by sector (where the sector ‘banking’
includes positions in GSEs). From the distribution by rating, one would
expect Portfolio II to be more risky.
These portfolios are identical to those analyzed in the paper published by
the Task Force of the Market Operations Committee of the European
System of Central Banks (2007), cited before. The analysis in that paper
focused on a comparison of ﬁve different although similar credit risk sys-
tems, one of which was operated at the ECB. One of the ﬁndings of
the original exercise was that different systems found fairly similar risk
143
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 172 ---
estimates, in particular at higher conﬁdence levels which are the most
relevant. In this book, the focus is on the ECB system only. The results
presented in this section match the results in the paper that was published
last year only approximately, because a new and improved system has since
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
(a)
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
Rating
Portfolio share (%)
Portfolio I
Portfolio II
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
(b)
Sovereign and supranational
Banking
Electronics
Automobile
Beverage, food and tobacco
Oil and gas
Printing and publishing
Utilities
Telecommunications
Retail stores
Aerospace and defence
Broadcasting and entertainment
Personal transportation
Insurance
Durable consumer products
Industry
Portfolio share (%)
Portfolio I
Portfolio II
Figure 3.3
Comparison of portfolios by rating and by industry.
144
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 173 ---
been developed, taking into account some of the lessons from the earlier
study. As in the paper, the results from a ‘core’ parameter set are compared
with those obtained from various sensitivity analyses.
The simulation results include the following risk measures: expected loss,
unexpected loss, VaR and ES, at various conﬁdence levels and all for a one-
year investment horizon, and the probability of at least one default.
The inclusion of the latter is motivated by the belief that a default may have
reputational consequences for a central bank invested in the defaulted
company.
4.1 Portfolio I
This section presents the ﬁrst simulation results for Portfolio I and intro-
duces the common set of parameters, which are also used for Portfolio II
(Section 4.2). The results provide a starting point for the scenario analysis
in Section 4.3, and can also be used to analyse the impact of different
modelling assumptions for parameters not prescribed by the parameter set,
in particular short-horizon PDs. The common set includes a ﬁxed recovery
rate (40 per cent) and a uniform asset correlation (24 per cent). The credit
migration matrix (Table 3.4) was obtained from Bucay and Rosen (1999),
and is based on Standard & Poor’s ratings, but with default probabilities
for AAA and AA revised upwards (from zero) as in Ramaswamy (2004a)
whereby the PD for AA has been set equal to the level of AA–. The aug-
mented matrix (not shown) is derived from this matrix and is effectively of
dimension 3 · 11: only the ﬁrst three rows are needed because initial ratings
are A or better. The number of columns is 11, because one default state is
replaced by four sub-periods (those used in the example of Section 3.4).
Spreads are derived from Nelson–Siegel curves (Nelson and Siegel 1987),
where the zero-coupon rate ycr(t) for maturity t (in months) and credit
rating cr is given by ycr tð Þ ¼ bcr
1 þ bcr
2 þ bcr
3

 1ekt
kt
 bcr
3 ekcrt. The curve
parameters are given in Table 3.5.
The main results are shown in Figure 3.4 and Table 3.6. The starting
point for the analysis of the results is the validation of the models, using the
analytical expressions for expected and unexpected loss given in equations
(3.6) and (3.11), while keeping in mind that the results for Portfolio I are
averages over different systems, based on different assumptions, in par-
ticular for the PD of short-duration assets. The analytical computations
conﬁrm the simulation results of Table 3.6: expected loss equals 1 basis
point (i.e. the same as the simulated result); unexpected loss is around 27
145
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 174 ---
Table 3.4 Common migration matrix (one-year migration probabilities)
To From
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
CCC/C
D
AAA
90.79%
8.30%
0.70%
0.10%
0.10%
–
–
0.01%
AA
0.70%
90.76%
7.70%
0.60%
0.10%
0.10%
–
0.04%
A
0.10%
2.40%
91.30%
5.20%
0.70%
0.20%
–
0.10%
BBB
–
0.30%
5.90%
87.40%
5.00%
1.10%
0.10%
0.20%
BB
–
0.10%
0.60%
7.70%
81.20%
8.40%
1.00%
1.00%
B
–
0.10%
0.20%
0.50%
6.90%
83.50%
3.90%
4.90%
CCC/C
0.20%
–
0.40%
1.20%
2.70%
11.70%
64.50%
19.30%
D
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
100.00%
Note: PD for AAA and AA adjusted as in Ramaswamy (2004a).
Source: Bucay and Rosen (1999).
Table 3.5 Parameters for Nelson–Siegel curves
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
CCC/C
kcr
0.0600
0.0600
0.0600
0.0600
0.0600
0.0600
0.0600
b1
cr (level)
0.0660
0.0663
0.0685
0.0718
0.0880
0.1015
0.1200
b2
cr (slope)
0.0176
0.0142
0.0149
0.0158
0.0242
0.0254
0.0274
b3
cr (curvature)
0.0038
0.0052
0.0061
0.0069
0.0139
0.0130
0.0080
99.00
99.90
99.99
Confidence level (%)
0.01
1
0.1
10
100
VaR & ES (% of market value)
VaR
ES
Figure 3.4
Simulation results for Portfolio I.
146
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 175 ---
basis points (vs. 28 basis points for the simulation). Further reassurance of
the accuracy is obtained from the results in Table 3.7, which shows a
decomposition of simulation results in the contributions of default and
migration. This decomposition can be derived by running the model in
‘default mode’ with an adjusted migration matrix – setting all migration
probabilities to zero, while increasing the probabilities that ratings remain
unchanged and keeping PDs unchanged – and isolating the contribution of
default. Nearly 50 per cent of expected loss, i.e. 0.5 basis point, can be
attributed to default, which is easily and intuitively veriﬁed as follows:
approximately 80 per cent of the portfolio is rated AAA, 17 per cent has a
rating of AA and the remaining 3 per cent is rated A. Most AAA positions
have a maturity of more than one year, while the (assumed) maturity of all
AA and A positions is one month. If one multiplies these weights by the
corresponding PDs (1, 4 and 10 basis points, respectively), scaled for shorter
maturities and the loss given default (i.e. one minus recovery rate), then
the expected loss in default mode and assuming a one-year maturity of
deposits is approximately (0.80 · 0.0001 þ 0.17 · 0.0004 / 12 þ 0.03 ·
0.0010 / 12) · 0.6 ¼ 0.5 basis point.
The decomposition in Table 3.7 also shows that at lower conﬁdence
levels, migration is an important source of risk, but that default becomes
more relevant as the conﬁdence level increases. At 99.99 per cent, virtually
all the risk comes from default.
From Table 3.6, a number of further interesting observations can be
made. One of the ﬁrst things that can be seen is that VaR and, to a lesser
extent, ES are well contained until the 99.90 per cent level, but that these
risk measures increase dramatically when the conﬁdence level is raised to
Table 3.6 Simulation results for Portfolio I
Expected loss
0.01%
Unexpected loss
0.28%
VaR
99.00%
0.06%
99.90%
0.48%
99.99%
21.27%
ES
99.00%
0.64%
99.90%
4.98%
99.99%
22.89%
Probability of at least one default
0.18%
147
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 176 ---
99.99 per cent (which corresponds to the assumed probability of survival
(non-default) of AAA-rated instruments, i.e. the majority of the portfolio).
Evaluated at the 99.90 per cent conﬁdence level, the CreditVaR is almost
irrelevant when compared with the VaR for market risks (in particular
currency and gold price risks). However, once the conﬁdence level is raised
to 99.99 per cent, credit risk becomes a signiﬁcant source of risk too, with
potential losses estimated in the region of 20 per cent of the portfolio. As
conﬁrmed by the results in Table 3.3, defaults have a signiﬁcant impact on
portfolio returns at this conﬁdence level.
In order to determine the statistical signiﬁcance of (differences in)
simulation results, standard errors for the VaR estimates can be calculated.
Standard errors are based on the observation that the number of scenarios
with losses exceeding the VaR is a random variable which follows a binomial
distribution with mean n(1  a) and standard deviation
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
na 1  a
ð
Þ
p
, where
n equals the number of draws in the simulation and a corresponds to the
conﬁdence level of the VaR. For example, if the 99.99 per cent VaR is
estimated from 100,000 simulations, then the expected number of scenarios
with losses exceeding this VaR is 100,000 · (1  0.9999) ¼ 10; the corres-
ponding standard deviation equals 3.16. The simulation results above and
below the VaR are recorded (using interpolation when the standard devi-
ation is not an integer number) and the difference, expressed as a percentage
Table 3.7 Decomposition of simulation results into default and migration
Default
Migration
Expected loss
47.8%
52.2%
Unexpected loss
99.6%
0.4%
VaR
99.00%
–a
100.0%
99.90%
52.6%
47.4%
99.99%
100.0%
–
ES
99.00%
77.1%
22.9%
99.90%
98.9%
1.1%
99.99%
99.9%
0.1%
a At 99 per cent, there are no defaults. Recall that VaR has been deﬁned as the
tail loss exceeding expected losses. As a consequence, the model in default mode
reports a negative VaR (i.e. a gain offsetting expected loss) at 99 per cent. For
illustration, this result is shown in the table as a 0 per cent contribution from
default (and, consequently, 100 per cent from migration).
148
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 177 ---
of the forward portfolio value (FVp) and divided by two, is reported as the
standard error. For very large samples, it is reasonable to approximate the
distribution of the number of losses exceeding the VaR by a normal dis-
tribution, and conclude there is a 68 per cent probability that the ‘true’ VaR
falls within one standard deviation around the estimated VaR. Note that the
standard deviation of the binomial distribution increases with the number
of iterations n, but that this value represents only the index of observations.
As the number of iterations increases, individual simulation results are less
dispersed. As a result, the standard error of the VaR estimates is expected to
decrease as the number of iterations increases.
The reported standard errors indicate that the estimates of the 99.00
per cent and 99.90 per cent VaR are very accurate. After 100,000 iterations,
the reported standard errors are practically 0. However, the uncertainty
surrounding the VaR increases substantially as the conﬁdence level rises to
99.99 per cent: after 1,000,000 iterations and without variance reduction
techniques, the standard error is nearly 3 per cent. Increasing the number of
iterations brings it down only very gradually. Not surprisingly, given the
lack of data, simulation results at very high conﬁdence levels should be
treated with care.
For Portfolio I, with its large share of short duration assets, the prob-
ability of at least one default depends strongly on how one-year default
probabilities are converted into shorter equivalents. For example, if the
(very conservative) assumption had been made that the PDs of short-
duration assets equal the one-year PDs, then the calculation would have
been as follows. Portfolio I consists of six obligors rated AAA, twenty-two
rated AA and eight rated A. If, for simplicity and illustration purposes, it is
assumed that defaults occur independently, then it is easy to see that
the probability of at least one default would be equal to 1  (1  0.01%)6 ·
(1 0.04%)22 · (1  0.10%)8 ¼ 1.73%. However, under the more realistic
assumption that the PD of all thirty AA and A obligors and two of the six
AAA obligors (one-month deposits) equals only 1/12th of the annual
probability, then the probability of at least one default reduces to 1 
(1  0.01%)4 · (1  0.01% / 12)2 · (1  0.04% / 12)22 · (1  0.10% / 12)8 ¼
0.18% only, in line with the results reported in Table 3.6.
The calculations in the previous paragraph are based on assumed default
independence. Since these computations are concerned with default only, it
is useful to discuss the impact of default correlation. Consider a very simple
although rather extreme example of a portfolio composed of two issuers
149
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 178 ---
A and B, each with a PD equal to 50 per cent.12 If the two issuers default
independently, then the probability of at least one default equals
1  (1  50%)2 ¼ 75%. If, however, defaults are perfectly correlated, then
the portfolio behaves as a single bond and the probability of at least one
default is simply equal to 50 per cent. On the other hand, if there is perfect
negative correlation of defaults, then if one issuer defaults, the other does
not, and vice versa. Either A or B defaults and the probability of at least one
default equals 100 per cent. It is a general result that the probability of
at least one default decreases (non-linearly) as the default correlation
increases. Note that this corresponds to a well-known result in structured
ﬁnance, whereby the holder of the equity tranche of an asset pool, who
suffers from the ﬁrst default(s), is said to be ‘long correlation’. Given the
complexity of the computations with multiple issuers, it sufﬁces to conclude
that one should expect simulated probabilities of at least one default to be
somewhat lower than the analytical equivalents based on zero correlation,
but that, more importantly, the assumptions for short-duration assets can
have a dramatic impact on this probability.
4.2 Portfolio II
Portfolio II has been designed in such a way as to reﬂect a portfolio for
which credit risk is more relevant than for Portfolio I. It is therefore to
be expected that risks are higher than in the previous section (see also
Figures 3.3a and 3.3b). The simulation exercise is repeated for Portfolio II
and to some extent similar observations can be made as for Portfolio I. For
completeness, Table 3.8 summarizes the main results. It shows, among other
things, that the contribution of default to overall risk is substantially lower
than for Portfolio I, mainly because the duration of Portfolio II is higher. A
second and less important reason is that credit spreads between A (average
rating of Portfolio II) and BBB are somewhat larger than between AAA
(bulk of Portfolio I) and AA. Note also that at 99.99 per cent, the contri-
bution of migrations to VaR and ES is non-negligible (and higher than at
99.9 per cent). The most interesting part comes when the risk measures – in
particular VaR and ES – are compared for the two portfolios. This is
illustrated graphically in Figures 3.5a and 3.5b.
12 This rather extreme probability of default is chosen for illustration purposes only, because perfect negative
correlation is only possible with a probability of default equal to 50 per cent. The conclusions are still valid with
other probabilities of default, but the example would be more complex. See also Lucas 2004.
150
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 179 ---
Figures 3.5a and 3.5b show that while VaR and ES are higher than for
Portfolio I at the 99.00 per cent and 99.90 per cent conﬁdence levels (as
expected), the numbers are actually lower at the 99.99 per cent conﬁdence
level. Note that, because of the logarithmic scale of the vertical axis, the
difference at 99.99 per cent is actually substantial and much larger than it
may visually seem. The explanation for this possibly surprising result is the
same as for the steep rise in VaR and ES at the 99.99 per cent conﬁdence
level for Portfolio I: concentration. At very high conﬁdence levels, credit risk
is not driven by average ratings or credit quality, but by concentration. Even
with low probabilities of default, at certain conﬁdence levels defaults will
happen, and when they do, the impact is more severe if the obligor has a
large weight in the portfolio. Since Portfolio I is more concentrated in terms
of the number as well as the share of individual obligors, its VaR and ES can
indeed be higher than the risk of a portfolio with lower average ratings, such
as Portfolio II. In other words, a high credit quality portfolio is not neces-
sarily the least risky. Diversiﬁcation matters, in particular at high conﬁdence
levels. This result is also discussed in Mausser and Rosen (2007). Another
consequence of the better diversiﬁcation is that the risk estimates are much
more precise than for Portfolio I. For instance, after 1,000,000 iterations, the
standard error of the 99.99 per cent VaR is only 8 basis points.
Figure 3.6 compares the concentration of Portfolios I and II. Lorenz
curves plot the cumulative proportion of assets as a function of the cumu-
lative proportion of obligors. An equally weighted, inﬁnitely granular
Table 3.8 Simulation results for Portfolio II, including decomposition
Breakdown
Loss
Default
Migration
Expected loss
0.18%
49.4%
50.6%
Unexpected loss
0.62%
79.2%
20.8%
VaR
99.00%
2.28%
85.5%
14.5%
99.90%
8.60%
99.9%
0.1%
99.99%
11.56%
92.9%
7.1%
ES
99.00%
4.20%
87.3%
12.7%
99.90%
9.86%
94.4%
5.6%
99.99%
13.47%
92.7%
7.3%
Probability of at least
one default
12.0%
151
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 180 ---
portfolio is represented by a straight diagonal line (note that such a portfolio
may still be poorly diversiﬁed, as the obligors could all be concentrated in
one sector, for instance); at the other extreme, a portfolio concentrated in
a single obligor is represented by a horizontal line followed by an almost
vertical line. The greater the disparity between the curve and the diagonal,
the more the portfolio is concentrated. The ﬁgure conﬁrms that Portfolio I is
more concentrated than Portfolio II, which itself is also fairly concentrated.
21.3
11.6
0.01
0.1
1
10
100
(a)
99.00
99.90
99.99
Confidence level (%)
VaR (% of market value)
Portfolio I
Portfolio II
22.9
13.5
0.1
1
10
100
(b)
99.00
99.90
99.99
Confidence level (%)
ES (% of market value)
Portfolio I
Portfolio II
Figure 3.5
Comparison of simulation results for Portfolios I and II.
152
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 181 ---
Note that the relative size of individual obligors does not affect the prob-
ability of at least one default, which is much higher for Portfolio II than for
Portfolio I and rises to a level – around 12 per cent – that may concern
investors who fear reputational consequences from a default in their port-
folio. Statistically, this result is trivial: the larger the number of (inde-
pendent) issuers in the portfolio, the larger the probability that at least one
of them defaults. The probability of at least one default in a portfolio of n
independent obligors, each with identical default probability pd, equals
1  (1  pd)n. For small n and pd, this probability can be approximated by
n · pd, and so rises almost linearly with the number of independent obli-
gors. Clearly, increasing the number of independent obligors improves
the diversiﬁcation of the portfolio, reducing VaR and ES. It follows that
ﬁnancial risks (as measured by the VaR and ES) and reputational conse-
quences (if these are related to the probability of at least one default) move
in opposite directions as the number of obligors rises.
4.3 Sensitivity analysis
It is instructive to repeat the Monte Carlo simulations under alternative
parameter assumptions in order to analyze the sensitivity of risk measures.
This section discusses the impact of changes in the parameters that are to
some extent discretionary, i.e. the probability of default for AAA issuers, the
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Cumulative proportion of issuers (%)
Cumulative proportion of assets (%)
Portfolio I
Portfolio II
Equal weights
Figure 3.6
Lorenz curves for Portfolios I and II.
153
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 182 ---
recovery rate in case of default and the asset correlation between different
obligors. The portfolio of attention is Portfolio I, which is particularly
sensitive to one of the parameters. The following scenarios are considered:
 First, a reduction of the PD for AAA issuers from 1 basis point to 0.5
basis point per year.
 Second, it is assumed that all AAA issuers (mainly sovereigns and other
public issuers) are default risk-free. Note that this does not mean these
are considered completely credit risk-free, as downgrades and therefore
marked-to-market losses over a one-year horizon might still occur.
 An increase in the asset correlation; as an (arguably) extreme case, the
correlation doubles from 24 per cent (the maximum in Basel II) to 48
per cent. Note, however, that most of the issuers in Portfolio I are closely
related – for instance the US government and Government Sponsored
Enterprises – so that a somewhat higher average correlation than in the
portfolios of other market participants could be justiﬁed.
 A reduction in the recovery rate from 40 to 20 per cent.
Note that while the last two bullets can be considered as stress scenarios,
the ﬁrst ones actually reduce risk estimates. This is because a PD equal to 1
basis point for AAA issuers is considered a stress scenario in itself that
does not justify further increases in the PD assumptions. As already dis-
cussed in Section 3.4, the PD for AAA issuers is one of the key parameters of
the model; analyzing the sensitivity of results to this parameter is essential.
Lowering the PD in the sensitivity analyses is considered the most realistic
way of doing so. The results are summarized in Table 3.9 and Figure 3.7.
From the results, a number of interesting conclusions can be drawn. The
main, but hardly surprising observation is that ES (and similarly VaR)
change dramatically if government bonds and other AAA issuers are
assumed default risk-free. Other parameter variations have a much smaller
impact on the results, although obviously each of these matters individually.
Table 3.9 Sensitivity analysis for Portfolio I
Base
PD(AAA) ¼
0.5 bp
PD(AAA) ¼ 0
Correlation ¼
48%
Recovery ¼
20%
EL
0.01%
0.01%
0.01%
0.01%
0.01%
UL
0.28%
0.19%
0.03%
0.28%
0.36%
ES 99.9%
4.98%
3.01%
0.63%
5.10%
6.58%
Probability of at
least one default
0.18%
0.16%
0.14%
0.15%
0.18%
154
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 183 ---
A change in the assumed recovery rate can have a signiﬁcant, although not
dramatic, impact on risk measures such as ES, but the inﬂuence of changes
in correlations is very small; in fact, even when the correlation is doubled, a
change in ES is hardly visible in Figure 3.7.
A similar analysis can be done for Portfolio II, but it does not add new
insights. As Portfolio II contains only a minor share of government and
other AAA bonds, the impact of alternative PD assumptions is much
smaller than for Portfolio I.
5. Conclusions
Credit risk is gaining in importance within the central banking community
and in many other public and private investors. From surveys of central
bank reserves management practices that are published regularly, it is clear
that many central banks are expanding into non-traditional assets, often
implying more credit risk taking. Although growing, the proportion invested
in credit instruments is likely to remain small, and the typical central bank
portfolio continues to be concentrated in a small number of issuers only. If
the assumption is made that these issuers carry some default risk, then it can
be shown that the credit value at risk and expected shortfall of these portfolios
may be higher than initially anticipated, once the conﬁdence level is increased
to very high levels.
0.1
1
10
100
99.00
99.90
99.99
Confidence level (%)
ES (% of market value)
Base
PD(AAA) = 0.5 bp
PD(AAA) = 0
Recovery = 20%
Correlation = 48%
Figure 3.7
Sensitivity analysis for Portfolio I.
155
Credit risk modelling for public institutions’ portfolios

--- Página 184 ---
Naturally, this observation crucially depends on the quality of the par-
ameter assumptions. Empirically, defaults of AAA or AA rated issuers in one
year time are (virtually) non-existent. For government issuers, these are even
rarer. Assumptions of a positive probability of default are typically made
rather ad hoc and not based on empirical evidence. Another issue is how to
scale annual default probabilities for assets with shorter maturities, which
make up a large proportion of most central bank portfolios. Both assump-
tions can have a substantial impact on the credit risk assessment, and are
probably more critical for central banks than for commercial investors.
A portfolio credit risk model is a necessary but not a sufﬁcient instrument
for assessing overall risks, because defaults may have non-ﬁnancial conse-
quences as well. In particular, for a central bank or other public investor
whose ‘core’ performance is not measured in ﬁnancial return, a default by
one of the issuers in the portfolio may damage the investor’s reputation.
Reputation risk is even harder to quantify than credit risk, but it may be
tempting to use the probability of at least one default in the portfolio as a
proxy. Paradoxically, perhaps, this probability rises as the portfolio is
diversiﬁed into more issuers. One may argue that reputation is damaged
more by a default of a large issuer than the default of a small issuer (in
which case positive returns on the rest of the portfolio might more than
compensate the loss), but the example illustrates that central banks some-
times need to make a trade-off between ﬁnancial and reputation risk. Since
reputation is their main asset, investment styles are likely to remain con-
servative (as they should).
All in all, though, the special characteristics of credit return distributions,
the importance of credit risk models in commercial banks and the growth of
the credit derivatives market are arguments for building up expertise in
credit markets and credit risk modelling, also because there are clear spin-
offs to other areas of the central bank, in particular those responsible for
regulation and ﬁnancial stability. The best way do to so is by being active in
these markets with positions and by using a portfolio credit risk model.
Central banks have substantial experience with market risk models already;
credit risk modelling is a natural next step that also allows making these
risks more comparable and, ultimately, integrating them. After all, central
bank balance sheets and, hence, ﬁnancial risks are largely dictated by their
mandate, or reﬂect past developments. Currency and gold price risks can
only be hedged to a limited extent, if at all, but it is important to know how
these risks interact with other risks in the balance sheet.
156
Van der Hoorn, H.

--- Página 185 ---
4
Risk control, compliance monitoring
and reporting
Andres Manzanares and Henrik Schwartzlose
1. Introduction
The aim of a risk control framework for a central bank’s investment
operations is to correctly measure and mitigate – or set an upper bound to –
the ﬁnancial risks arising from the investment activities of the bank and in
particular from the holding of domestic and foreign currency investment
portfolios.1 The risk control framework of a central bank is ideally formu-
lated and enforced by an organizationally independent unit that is separated
from other business units and in particular from investment managers and
bank supervisors.2 Indeed, if staff involved in portfolio management report
on risk and credit exposures, their unbiased measurement is not ensured.
Similarly, eligibility and credit limits for investment operations should not
be misinterpreted as giving indications of non-public knowledge about a
certain counterparty derived from banking supervisory tasks. Chapter 1
dealt extensively with the considerations and speciﬁcities of public investors
which are key inputs into the deﬁnition of a risk management frame-
work for this type of investor. The present chapter deals with how these
considerations are mapped into risk management policies and how these
policies are made operational in terms of concrete risk management
methodologies and infrastructure. The primary components of a sound risk
management framework are the following: a comprehensive and inde-
pendent risk measurement approach; a detailed structure of limits, guide-
lines and other parameters used to govern risk taking; and strong
information systems for controlling, monitoring and reporting risks. The
risk control framework deﬁnes what these risks are, how they are measured
and how wide the admissible range for position taking is. This generally
1 Note that risks associated with the conduct of monetary policy open market operations are handled in Chapter 8.
2 See, e.g. (a) BCBS 2006a, (b) Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group II 2005, (c) BCBS 1998a.
157

--- Página 186 ---
implies that a risk control framework be rule-based, in order to objectively
deﬁne risk and to set a transparent bound to the amount of voluntary risk
taken.
The aims of the risk control framework are twofold:
(1) To map the actual risk–return preferences of the central bank senior
management in the most accurate way into a set of rules that can be
followed by risk-taking business units. This is mainly achieved by deﬁning
absolute limits (notably eligibility criteria and exposure bounds) and the
benchmark investment portfolios.
(2) To deﬁne the leeway granted to investment managers for position
taking (relative credit and market limits with respect to the benchmark
portfolios) and ensure adherence to it. This step should be guided by
senior management’s conﬁdence in investment managers’ ability to
achieve consistently better returns through active trading and by the
institution’s tolerance to ﬁnancial losses.
Once appropriate benchmark portfolios have been deﬁned, in a way that
they are a feasible solution in view of the risk–return preferences, they can
serve as a yardstick for the performance of the actual portfolios.3 Proﬁts or
losses stemming from tactical investment decisions can be assessed using
standard performance measurement tools and a short time horizon. The
performance of the strategic currency and asset allocation may be discussed
via a different analysis that takes into account the constraints imposed by
policy requirements and a longer time horizon.
In order to illustrate the general perspective given in this chapter, many
examples will refer to the ECB’s risk management setup. For a better
comprehension of these references, the ECB portfolio management struc-
ture is brieﬂy introduced in the Section 2 of this chapter. Section 3 covers
limit setting, introducing the different types of limits, some principles for
deriving them and standard internal procedures for maintaining them.
Section 4 is devoted to a number of tasks that are associated to compliance
monitoring, reporting and related areas where, for the sake of transpar-
ency and independence, the risk management function should play an
oversight role. Finally, sections on reporting (Section 5) and systems issues
(Section 6) complete the picture of the risk control framework for
investment operations.
3 Performance is used throughout this book as relative return of the actual investment portfolio with respect to the
benchmark portfolio.
158
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 187 ---
2. Overview of the distribution of portfolio management
tasks within the Eurosystem
The remaining sections of this chapter have a general central bank per-
spective. Each topic is then illustrated or contrasted by examples drawn
from the ECB’s risk management setup. In order to set the scene for these
illustrations and to avoid unnecessary repetition, this section provides a
brief overview of the ECB’s portfolio management setup as of mid 2008.
The ECB owns and manages two investment portfolios:4
 Foreign reserves. A portfolio of approximately EUR 35 billion, invested
in liquid, high credit quality USD- and JPY-denominated ﬁxed-income
instruments. Managed by portfolio managers in the Eurosystem National
Central Banks (NCBs).
 Own funds. A portfolio of approximately EUR 9 billion, invested in high
credit quality EUR-denominated ﬁxed-income instruments. Managed by
portfolio managers located at the ECB in Frankfurt.
The Eurosystem comprises the ECB and the ﬁfteen national central banks of
the sovereign states that have agreed to transfer their monetary policy and
adopt the euro as common single currency. The Eurosystem is governed by
the decision-making bodies of the ECB, namely the Governing Council5 and
the Executive Board6. The foreign reserves of the ECB are balanced by euro-
denominated liabilities vis-a`-vis NCBs stemming from the original transfer
of a part of their foreign reserves. As argued in Rogers 2004, this leads
to foreign exchange risks being very signiﬁcant, since the buffer generally
provided by domestic currency denominated assets is unusually small, the
4 The ECB holds a gold portfolio worth around EUR 10 billion which is not invested. The only activities related to this
portfolio are periodic sales in the framework of the Central Bank Gold Agreement (CBGA). A fourth portfolio,
namely the ECB staff pension fund, is managed by an external manager. These portfolios are not discussed further in
this chapter.
5 The Governing Council (GC) is the main decision-making body of the ECB. It consists of the six members of the
Executive Board, plus the governors of the national central banks from the fifteen euro area countries. The main
responsibilities are: 1) to adopt the guidelines and take the decisions necessary to ensure the performance of the tasks
entrusted to the Eurosystem; and 2) to formulate monetary policy for the euro area (including decisions relating to
monetary objectives, key interest rates, the supply of reserves in the Eurosystem, and the establishment of guidelines
for the implementation of those decisions).
6 The Executive Board (EB) consists of the President and Vice-President of the ECB and four additional members. All
members are appointed by common accord of the Heads of State or Government of the euro area countries. The EB’s
main responsibilities are: 1) to prepare Governing Council meetings; 2) to implement monetary policy for the euro
area in accordance with the guidelines specified and decisions taken by the Governing Council – in so doing, it gives
the necessary instructions to the euro area NCBs; 3) to manage the day-to-day business of the ECB; and 4) to exercise
certain powers delegated to it by the Governing Council – these include some of a regulatory nature.
159
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 188 ---
ECB not being directly responsible for providing credit to the banking
system nor for the issuance of banknotes. The ECB plays the role of deci-
sion maker and coordinator in the management of its foreign reserves. The
investment framework and benchmarks (both strategic and tactical) are set
centrally by the ECB, whereas the actual day-to-day portfolio management
is carried out by portfolio managers located in twelve of the Euro Area
National Central Banks (NCBs). Each NCB manages a portfolio of a size
which generally corresponds to the proportion of the total ECB foreign
reserves contributed by the country.7
From the outset in 1999 all NCBs managed both a USD and JPY portfolio.
Following a rationalization exercise in early 2006, however, currently six
NCBs manage only a USD portfolio, four manage only a JPY portfolio and
two NCB’s manage both a USD and a JPY portfolio. The currency distri-
bution is ﬁxed; in other words the NCB’s managing both a USD and a JPY
portfolio are not permitted to reallocate funds between the two portfolios.
The incentive structure applied vis-a`-vis portfolio managers is limited to
the regular reporting on return and performance and an associated ‘league
table’, submitted regularly for information to the ECB decision-making
bodies.
A three-tier benchmark structure applies to the management of each of
the USD and JPY portfolios. In-house deﬁned and maintained strategic
benchmarks are reviewed annually (with a one-year investment horizon),
tactical benchmarks monthly (with a three-month investment horizon) and
day-to-day revisions of the actual portfolios take place as part of active
management. The strategic benchmarks are prepared by the ECB’s Risk
Management Division and approved by the Executive Board (for the ECB’s
own funds) and by the Governing Council (for the foreign reserves). The
tactical benchmarks for the foreign reserves are reviewed by the ECB’s
Investment Committee, where tactical positions are proposed among
investment experts. While practically identical eligibility criteria apply for
the benchmarks and actual portfolios, relative VaR tolerance bands permit
the tactical benchmarks to deviate from the strategic benchmarks and the
actual portfolios to deviate from the tactical benchmarks. Most portfolio
managers tend to stay fairly close to the benchmarks; still, the setup ensures
a certain level of diversiﬁcation of portfolio management style, due to the
7 Exceptions exist for some NCBs of countries that were not part of the Euro area from the outset which, for efficiency
and cost reasons, chose to have their contributions managed by another NCB (as well as those NCBs that have
received such a mandate). In particular, no portfolio management tasks related to the ECB’s foreign reserves are
conducted by the central banks of Malta, Cyprus and Slovenia.
160
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 189 ---
full autonomy (within the investment guidelines and associated limits)
given to portfolio managers. Settlement of transactions and collateral
management is carried out by NCB back ofﬁces, in respect of accounts
legally owned by the ECB.
The investment process for the ECB’s own funds management is fully
contained within the ECB. It has a two-tier structure. The benchmark is set
internally, portfolio managers are ECB staff located in Frankfurt and
transactions are settled by the ECB back ofﬁce.
All risk management in relation to the foreign reserves and own funds is
carried out centrally by the ECB’s Risk Management Division (RMA).
Supporting this overall setup is the ECB’s portfolio management system
located centrally at the ECB, but made available through a private wide area
network to the portfolio managers located at NCBs (and at the ECB, for the
own funds). This system permits all actual and benchmark positions, risk
ﬁgures, limits etc. to be available on-line to NCB portfolio managers as well
as investment and risk management staff located at the ECB. While infor-
mation related to all portfolios is available to centrally located staff, infor-
mation related to individual NCB portfolios is not shared among NCB
portfolio managers. The system is also used for the management of the
ECB’s own-funds portfolio, but not for the individual reserves of Euro-
system central banks.8
3. Limits
We will use the usual breakdown of risks in an investment portfolio,
although a central bank is a very idiosyncratic investor in this aspect. Risks
faced by most commercial banks are roughly equally spread between credit
and market risks (Nuge´e 2000). In contrast, central banks’ ﬁnancial con-
cerns regarding investment portfolios are typically concentrated in the form
of market risk, which generally is so large that it dwarfs credit risks.
3.1 Deﬁning limits
Limits are arguably the main quantitative parameters contained in the risk
management framework. They will determine, together with the benchmark
8 Some of these NCBs use the same system from the same vendor for the management of their own reserves. However,
this is run as a separate instance of the system, at the location of the NCB.
161
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 190 ---
portfolio, the choice of the institution in the risk–return trade-off. Setting
most risk limits requires a substantial amount of judgement from decision
makers. The key task for risk managers in this respect should be to ensure that
decision makers are well aware of the implications by providing them with an
approximate feeling of both the impact of random events and their likeli-
hood. It follows that risk managers should take the pulse of higher man-
agement’s risk aversion periodically and in times of turbulence in ﬁnancial
markets, update the limits when needed. Risk management is responsible for:
 establishing risk policies, methodologies and procedures consistent with
institution-wide policies;
 reviewing and approving (possibly also deﬁning) models used for pricing
and risk measurement;
 measuring ﬁnancial risk across the organization as well as monitoring
exposures to risk factors and movement in risk factors;
 enforcing limits with traders;
 communicating risk management results to senior management.
It goes without saying that market and credit risk methodologies must be
solid and constrain risks adequately and leave no types of risk uncovered.
On the other hand it is also for operational reasons important that the
framework is coherent and without too many exceptions. If the framework
is too complex, it will be difﬁcult to communicate to management and
portfolio managers and in the end most likely only a few people will fully
understand it. A very complex framework also implies unnecessary oper-
ational risks and the cost of supporting it in terms of both ongoing staff
resources and IT solutions becomes unnecessarily high. It is therefore
important to ﬁnd an appropriate trade-off between complexity (and equal
treatment of risk types and risk-taking entities) and the ease with which the
framework can be implemented and supported. The following subsections
brieﬂy describe the ECB’s setup for each risk type.
3.2 Market risk limits
Market risk is deﬁned, following the Basel II accord, as the risk of losses in
on- and off-balance-sheet positions arising from movements in market
prices. Market risk notably comprises foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.9 For multi-currency portfolios where tactical ﬂows between currencies
9 Gold, which still plays an important role in central banks’ asset allocation schemes, may be considered as a currency
or as a commodity. Potential losses due to changes in its market price are also considered market risk.
162
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 191 ---
are admissible from a policy viewpoint, a way to put into work the prin-
ciples outlined above is to deﬁne a benchmark that sets the currency
composition and the structure of each currency sub-portfolio. Active
portfolio managers may then take not only tactical curve and credit pos-
itions within each currency sub-portfolio but also foreign exchange pos-
itions. Alternatively, the currency composition may be set as ﬁxed, thus
reducing the leeway granted to portfolio managers to curve and credit
positions with respect to the benchmark of each currency sub-portfolio. The
latter option is preferred by the Eurosystem.
Being able to account for all types of market risks including foreign
exchange risk is a major feature of VaR versus previously popular risk
measures, which is especially important for most central banks where the
latter represents the bulk of total ﬁnancial risks. Box 4.1 elaborates further
on this comparison.
Box 4.1. Modiﬁed duration versus VaR
Traditionally, modiﬁed duration and convexity have been used for measuring the sensitivity
of ﬁxed-income portfolios to yield-curve changes. An approach to the risk control of the
foreign currency denominated portfolios of central banks would thus be to measure sep-
arately their interest rate sensitivity and combine it with some kind of volatility measure for
exchange rates. Such an approach has two important drawbacks. First, a stepwise
measurement of risks (ﬁrst, interest rate and then foreign exchange risks) does not allow to
summarize properly the total potential losses and to account for correlations between
shocks to the yield curve and shocks to the exchange rate. Second, the variety of yield-
curve positions that can be taken for tactical investment positions is not captured by one
single risk measure and hence complicates the framework for relative risk control.
A clear trend in risk management theory over recent years has therefore been to aim at
a comprehensive coverage of risks, such as to capture the total effects and inter-linkages
among potential adverse events. In this respect, VaR allows to incorporate such linkages by
means of estimated variance-covariance matrices that are then used as an indication, in
terms of likelihood, of how the effect of different risk factors on a portfolio can either
cumulate or offset each other. In contrast to modiﬁed duration, where one single risk factor
(sovereign yield-curve parallel shifts) is the source of all the risk accounted for, VaR can
encompass in principle all risk factors such as term structure and credit spreads, as well as
exchange rate changes. Modiﬁed duration fails to reﬂect the risk effect of yield-curve
positions with no duration impact and may overestimate the risk involved in duration
positions by possibly ignoring other risk-offsetting effects. Moreover, limits deﬁned by
means of VaR have the advantage of automatically becoming more restrictive in terms
of duration whenever bond markets become more volatile. Indeed, VaR has become
the industry standard for measurement of market risk, despite some limitations and dis-
advantages. VaR is by deﬁnition a transparent and easy way to grasp the importance of
163
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 192 ---
Box 4.1. (cont.)
risks incurred by holding a portfolio. Since this measure has become the industry
benchmark, it has the important property of comparability.
All these arguments tend to suggest the use of relative VaR for measuring relative risks of
the actual vis-a`-vis the benchmark portfolio. Relative VaR is simply the VaR of the rescaled
difference portfolio. In other words, the benchmark portfolio is rescaled to have the same
market value as the actual portfolio, and then the difference portfolio is created, i.e. long
the actual portfolio and short the rescaled benchmark portfolio. Finally, the absolute VaR of
the latter difference portfolio is obtained. The VaR may also be expressed as a percentage
of the actual portfolio’s market value. For the kind of portfolio that most central banks hold,
with the bulk placed on money market and ﬁxed rate instruments, parametric delta-normal
VaR, estimated through exponentially weighted moving averages (EWMA) as introduced by
JPMorgan in 1993 may be a good choice regarding the estimation method for VaR. This
method assumes joint normality of returns for a grid of ﬁxed-term interest and exchange
rates (the risk factors), which allows the variance of the whole portfolio losses to be esti-
mated (generally assuming zero mean future returns) at a small computational cost. However,
if the use of derivatives is more extensive and, in particular, if options are eligible, there may
be a case for computing VaR through Monte Carlo simulations. In order to test the appro-
priateness of the Gaussian assumptions, a number of statistical tests can be used, which
have been developed to monitor the reliability of reported VaR ﬁgures for regulatory purposes.
See Campbell (2006) for a review and references.
Alexander (1999) or Jorion (2006) provide good overviews on market
risk measurement. Market risks are nowadays commonly measured by VaR,
which is simply an estimate of a given quantile, e.g. 95 per cent, of the
probability distribution of losses in a portfolio due to price developments.10
Speciﬁcally, if we denote with Fh the cumulative probability distribution
function of the h-period portfolio return, conditional on all the information
on portfolio composition at a given time, the h-period VaR at conﬁdence
level a is deﬁned as: VaRh
t ðaÞ ¼ F1
h ðaÞ. The negative sign is a normali-
zation in order for losses to be positive numbers. The VaR of a portfolio is
sometimes called absolute VaR to stress the fact that the probability distri-
bution considered refers to total returns. If, on the contrary, the main con-
cern is the size of potential losses of the portfolio considered in comparison to
a benchmark portfolio of the same current market value serving as a yardstick
for performance, the relevant risk measure is called relative VaR.11 Relative
10 An excellent account of the rise of VaR as industry standard and a general overview of market risk measurement is
given in Dowd (2005).
11 Relative VaR is a measure of the risk of losses with respect to the benchmark result and is defined as the VaR of the
difference portfolio (i.e. actual minus the market-value-scaled benchmark portfolio). Relative VaR is sometimes
called differential VaR. See Mina and Xiao (2001) for details.
164
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 193 ---
VaR allows the measurement of the aggregate risk born, relative to the
benchmark, in the domestic currency.
In the case of the ECB the lion’s share of the market risk faced is due
to the potential losses incurred on the foreign reserve portfolios in case of
appreciation of the euro.12 The ECB is, as the ﬁrst line of defense of the
Eurosystem in case of intervention in the foreign exchange market (article
30 of the ESCB Statute), constrained to hold large amounts of liquid foreign
currency assets with no currency risk hedge. The currency choice and dis-
tribution of these reserves are determined on the basis of policy consider-
ations only secondarily concerned with ﬁnancial risk control. The latter
concern is reﬂected in the periodic adjustments of the foreign reserves
currency composition, which consider, among other things, risk–return
aspects in the allocation proposals. Furthermore, foreign exchange risk is
buffered in accounting terms through revaluation accounts and through an
additional general risk provision. Once the strategic benchmark portfolio
characteristics are set for a whole year,13 active market risk management is
mainly conﬁned to monitoring and controlling the additional market risk
induced by positions taken vis-a`-vis the strategic and tactical benchmarks.
3.2.1 The ECB’s market risk control framework
First, risk from foreign exchange rates (FX risk) is not actively managed in
the sense that it is accepted as resulting from policy tasks. The allocation
between JPY and USD is however also inﬂuenced by risk considerations.
Second, the strategic benchmarks are set to comply with a no-loss constraint
over an annual horizon at a certain conﬁdence level (i.e. also a kind of VaR
constraint; see Chapter 2). Third, market risk limits for the active layers of
ECB investment operations are set in the form of relative VaR limits,
namely ten basis points for the relative VaR of the USD and JPY tactical
benchmarks vis-a`-vis their respective strategic benchmarks and to ﬁve basis
points for the USD and JPY actual portfolios vis-a`-vis their respective tactical
benchmarks. As regards the ECB’s own-funds portfolio denominated in
EUR, portfolio managers may deviate by up to ﬁve basis points from the
strategic benchmark.14 All these relative VaR limits refer to a daily horizon
and a 99 per cent conﬁdence level. The value of the relative VaR limits is
12 VaR due to foreign exchange risk is much higher than VaR stemming from interest rate and spread changes, by a
factor of around fifteen.
13 The task of defining the strategic benchmark portfolios in each currency on an annual basis that satisfy the risk–
return preferences of the decision-making bodies is described in detail in Section 7 of this chapter.
14 There is no tactical benchmark for the ECB’s own-funds portfolio.
165
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 194 ---
approved by the Executive Board for the own funds and the Governing
Council for the foreign reserves based on proposals prepared by the Risk
Management Division. The level of relative VaR limits may be reviewed at any
time should the ECB consider it necessary; however in practice the limits
change only infrequently.
The implementation of market risk limits based on relative VaR requires
appropriate risk measurement IT systems. The ECB uses market data pro-
vided by RiskMetrics, which is a widely recognized data and software pro-
vider for risk measurement purposes. The decay factor is set to 1 (no decay)
and a relatively long period for estimation of the variance–covariance matrix
is applied (two years). The latter parameter choices lead to a very stable
estimate of VaR over time. This has the advantage of smoothing away high
frequency noise and the disadvantage of possibly disregarding meaningful
peaks and troughs in volatility which are relevant for risks.
3.3 Credit risk limits
Credit risk is the potential that a counterparty or debt borrower will fail to
meet its obligations in accordance with contractual terms. Counterparties
of central banks are generally highly rated, high credit quality banks and
therefore the credit risk of a reserves portfolio is quite different from that
of a commercial bank with a large part of its assets in the form of loans to
unrated borrowers.
In the case of central banks, credit risk incurred for investment operations
can be largely mitigated through a comprehensive credit risk framework
aiming to minimize ﬁnancial losses deriving from exposures to insolvency.
In fact, there is a priori no policy constraint on the investment universe or
the treatment of counterparty risk, and thus a risk-averse central bank can
generally aim at holding a high credit quality portfolio and low counter-
party risk.
The nature of the credit control framework is typically prudential and its
aim twofold: ﬁrst, it sets a minimum standard for creditworthiness among
debtors and counterparties and second, it forces a minimal dispersion of
credit risks in the portfolio in order to avoid high exposure concentration
(in terms of sectoral or geographical location, taking into account the likeli-
hood of idiosyncratic ﬁnancial market shocks). Also, when deﬁning eligibility
conditions, reputation risks play a role: a loss realized by a default of a single
name may trigger public reactions incommensurate with the size of the actual
ﬁnancial cost.
166
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 195 ---
The ﬁrst of these aims is typically laid down in the conditions for eligi-
bility of instruments, issuers, issues and counterparties. Central banks
typically restrict the eligible investment universe according to both market
depth and credit quality considerations. Putnam (2004) argues that, while
credit quality constraints are necessary if the concern is to avoid a highly
negatively skewed return distribution, they are not per se a protection
against absence of liquidity in a crisis situation. However, institutions are
reasonably vague as to the exact degree of risk aversion, while asserting their
preference for prudent management (Ramaswamy 2004b).
The second aim is achieved by adding, on top of these conditions,
numerical limits for credit exposures to countries, issuers, and counter-
parties and procedures to calculate these exposures and ensuring compli-
ance both in the actual and in the benchmark portfolio.15 These criteria
are a result of mapping the banks’ perceived tolerance to credit (and
associated reputational) risk into a working scheme for managing credit risk
concentrations.
3.3.1 Credit quality and size as key inputs to limit setting formulas
A simple rule-of-thumb threshold system for setting credit exposure limits
to counterparties can be easily deﬁned. In essence, it consists of selecting
a ‘limit’ function L(Q, S), whereby Q is the chosen measure of credit quality,
while S is a size measure, such as capital. Limits are non-decreasing in both
input variables. The size measure typically aims at avoiding to build up
disproportionate exposure to some counterparties, issuers, countries or
markets.
The importance of credit quality in determining eligibility and setting
limits is obvious. Chapter 3 introduced the relevant concepts, as they are
also needed for credit portfolio modelling. Typically, credit quality is under-
stood to mean mainly probability of default for classical debt instruments,
while it also incorporates tail measures for covered bonds and structured
instruments.
As is always the case when the probability distribution a random variable
is summarized by a one-dimensional statistic, possibly critical information
is bound to be lost. In the case of credit risks, which can be assumed to have
very skewed distributions, using probabilities of default disregards conditional
15 As a general principle, an instrument’s exposure should always be calculated as its mark-to-market value (in the case
of derivatives, its replacement cost). The calculation of market values in a separate risk management system may be
data and time consuming. This is why a tight integration of the systems used in the front, middle and back office
greatly simplifies the oversight of compliance with credit risk limits.
167
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 196 ---
loss sizes. Using systematically expected loss fails to provide an adequate
solution, since it does not reﬂect the dispersion of losses.16 On the other
hand, there is a need to map credit rating into limits and a yes/no decision
on eligibility, and it is deﬁnitely more intuitive to do the latter from a one-
dimensional credit scale.
How to measure credit quality for an eligibility and limit-setting
framework? The most evident way, followed probably by all institutional
investors, is to rely on ratings of major international rating agencies. These
have large coverage, are cheaply available for investors, and investors may
trust that rating agencies maintain a high quality of their ratings as their
business model relies to a large extent on their brand name capital. Whether
this is all what is needed for an institutional investor who has no ambitions
to enter the world of non-rated companies is another question. External
ratings are normally intended to be valid for a long period of time (‘through
the cycle’) and generally do not react to small movements in the risk proﬁle
of the institution. Ratings are usually changed when it is unlikely that they
will be reversed in a short period of time.17 For this reason, credit risk
ratings normally lag market developments and may experience signiﬁcant
swings in times of ﬁnancial crisis (as has been observed several times in the
past). As a result, ratings may not be the most efﬁcient short-term pre-
dictors of default or changes in credit quality.18 Furthermore, the applica-
tion of a through-the-cycle approach and efforts to avoid rating reversals by
the rating agencies lead to ratings which are relatively stable but show serial
correlation in rating changes. What can thus be done to complement reli-
ance on external credit ratings?
First, one may invest resources into understanding rating methodo-
logies, in order to spot possible weaknesses that could be considered in the
credit risk control framework. Although having been criticized heavily for
16 Assume we had two issuers, one with a 10 bp probability of losing 10 per cent of the investment, the other with a
1 bp probability of losing 100 per cent. The expected loss, and hence the rating, would be the same, but the risk
would definitely not be the same.
17 ‘Rating agencies state that they take a rating action only when it is unlikely to be reversed shortly afterward. Based on
a formal representation of the rating process, it has been shown that such a policy provides a good explanation for
the empirical evidence: Rating changes occur relatively seldom, exhibit serial dependence, and lag changes in the
issuer’ default risk.’ (Lo¨ffler 2005)
18 ‘Rating stability has facilitated the use of ratings in the market for a variety of applications. As a result, rating changes
can have substantial economic consequences for a wide variety of debt issuers and investors. Changes in ratings
should therefore be made only when an issuer’s relative fundamental creditworthiness has changed and the change is
unlikely to be reversed within a short period of time. By introducing a second objective, rating stability, into rating
system management, some accuracy with respect to short-term default prediction may be sacrificed.’ (Moody’s
2003)
168
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 197 ---
their part in the US sub-prime crisis of 2007 (having inﬂated the use of high
ratings for structured products that later on exhibited large losses), rating
agencies tend to publish extensively on their rating methodologies and on
defaults statistics. Even if these publications do not answer all questions,
mostly the wealth of information provided is already more than what can be
digested by a smaller risk management unit. Understanding what is behind
ratings allows to better analyse the appropriate level of the rating threshold,
and may also be useful for an efﬁcient aggregation of ratings.
Second, one may aim at understanding main factors driving the relevant
industries. For instance, it is necessary to have a fair degree of understanding
of what is going on in the banking system, in covered bonds, in structured
ﬁnance, in corporates, or in MBSs if one is invested in those markets. This is a
pre-condition to be able to react quickly in case credit issues arise.
Third, one may monitor market measures of credit risk such as bond or
Credit Default Swaps (CDS) spreads. These aggregate views of market
participants in a rather efﬁcient way, and obviously may react much earlier
than credit ratings. Of course, by nature, monitoring those also does not put
an investor in front of the curve as the information will then already be
priced in. Still, it is better to be slightly behind the curve than not even to be
aware of market developments. It is not obvious to incorporate market risk
indicators directly in a limit-setting formula, but they can at least be used
to trigger discussions which can lead to an exclusion of a counterparty or
issuer or to a lowering of a limit.
Finally, one can set up an internal credit rating system on the basis
of public information on companies, such as balance sheet information,
complemented by high-frequency news on the company (see e.g. Tabakis
and Vinci 2002). Such a monitoring requires substantial expertise and is
therefore costly. It will probably make sense only for larger and somewhat
lower rated investments. Ramaswamy (2004b) indicates that, due to the
availability of rating scores issued by the major rating agencies for most, if
not all, of a central banks’ counterparties, the development of an internal
credit rating system is generally too cost intensive compared to its marginal
beneﬁts.
If relying on ratings by several rating agencies, it is also crucial to
aggregate ratings of the selected major rating agencies in the most efﬁcient
way such as to obtain a good aggregate rating index. The investor (in this
case the central bank) has an idea of what minimum credit quality it would
like to accept, expressed in its preferred underlying risk measure. By con-
sidering the methodological differences in producing ratings, the rating
169
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 198 ---
scales used by the different rating agencies can in principle be mapped into
the preferred underlying measure of credit quality. In other words, the
investor’s focus on the preferred underlying risk measure requires trans-
lating ratings from the scale they were formulated in by the rating agency to
the investor’s scale. This may be formulated as estimating an ‘interpretation
bias’. Concretely, one may assume that the preferred credit quality measure
can be represented in scale from one to ten. In the master scale of the central
bank, a rating of ten would correspond to the highest credit quality AAA, a
nine to the next highest one, etc, and 1 to the lowest investment grade
rating. Rating agencies may use similar scales, a rating by a certain rating
agency of e.g. ‘nine’ may in fact correspond in the central bank’s master
scale to the ratings 8 and 9, and could thus be interpreted to mean an 8.5
rating in this master scale. Ratings are noisy estimates of the preferred credit
quality in the sense that they are thought (in our simplistic approach) to be,
for i ¼ 1, 2, . . . , n, j ¼ 1, . . . , m:
Rj;i ¼ Rj þ bi þ ej;i
where i ¼ the counter for the rating agency; j ¼ the counter for the
counterparty; n ¼ the number of eligible rating agencies; m ¼ the number
of names (obligors or securities); Rj,i ¼ the estimated credit quality by
agency i of the rated counterparty j expressed in the 1 to 10 rating scale of
this agency; Rj ¼ the preferred credit quality of the rated counterparty j, as
expressed in the central bank’s master scale; bi ¼ the constant, additive ‘bias’
of rating agency i, in the sense that if the rating agency i provides a rating of
e.g. ‘seven’, this could mean in terms of PDs of the central bank’s master
scale a ‘six’, such that the bias of the rating would be ‘þ1’; ei ¼ are inde-
pendent random variables distributed with cumulative distribution func-
tions Fi, respectively.
A rating aggregation rule in the context of establishing eligibility is to be
understood as follows. First, it is assumed that the central bank would like
to make eligible all names having an expected preferred rating measure of
above a certain threshold T. For instance, T could correspond to a ‘six’ in its
master scale. Then, an aggregation rule is simply a rule that deﬁnes a
composite rating out of the available ratings of rating agencies, and makes
the name eligible if and only if the composite exceeds the threshold. The
composite can also be bound to be an integer, but does not have to.
Generally, a rating aggregation rule C is a function from the available ratings
to a real number in [1,10], whereby the non-existence of a rating is
170
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 199 ---
considered to be a speciﬁc input to be considered explicitly in the mapping.
There are two main desirable characteristics of rating aggregation rules:
 Unbiasedness, i.e. the composite rating should be an unbiased estimator
of the preferred rating measure, EbC(Rj,1, . . . ,Rj,n)c ¼ Rj;
 Efﬁciency: among all unbiased statistics, an efﬁcient one should minimize
the variance, i.e. C minimizes Eb(C(Rj,1, . . . ,Rj,n)]  Rj)2c subject to
EbC(Rj,1, . . . ,Rj,n)c ¼ Rj.
If there were no rounding issues, and one knew the bias and standard
deviations of the individual rating agencies, then the optimal rating aggre-
gation rule would obviously be19
Cj ¼
X
n
i¼1
ðRj;i  biÞ
1=r2
i
P
n
k¼1
1=r2
k
Despite its theoretical optimality, this rule is rarely used in practice. Why?
First, there may be a lack of knowledge on biases or on diverging standard
errors of ratings. Second, rounding obviously creates complications. Third,
complexities arise due to the need to take strong assumptions for averaging
essentially qualitative ‘opinions’. Fourth, the term bias in this model setup
may be wrongly interpreted as a rating bias by an agency, rather than a
correction for the fact that different risk measures are being compared, thus
reducing the transparency of the process.20Alternative aggregation rules may
be classiﬁed in the most basic way as follows:
(i)
Discrimination or not between rating rules: (A) Rules discriminating
between rating agencies: through re-mapping (i.e. recognizing non-zero
values of the bis, through different weights (justiﬁed by different variances
of error terms), through not being content with the ratings of only one
speciﬁc agency, etc.); (B) Rules not discriminating between agencies.
(ii) Aggregation technique: (A) Averaging rules: weighted or unweighted
averages; (B) n-th best rules: ﬁrst best, second best, third best, worst.
19 This can be derived by considering, for every counterparty j, the linear regression of the vector of size n, Rj,ibi (as
the dependent variable) to the constant vector of size n, 1 as regressor. By assumption, the variance–covariance
matrix of the error terms is a diagonal matrix with elements r2
i . The best linear unbiased estimator (BLUE) is then
given by C
j .
20 It is difficult to imagine that a ‘true’ rating, if it existed and could be properly expressed in one dimension, would be
purposely missed by a rating agency, normally conscious to maintain its brand name. Another issue is whether rating
agencies have enough information available to estimate reliably such measures as probability of defaults, given that
the latter are very rare events. Even the most reasonable assumptions can turn out to be wrong in such a context.
171
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 200 ---
(iii) Require a minimum number of ratings or not. (A) Do not care about
number of ratings; (B) Require a minimum number of ratings, or at
least require a better e.g. average if the number of ratings is low.
As it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd analytical solutions for establishing which of the
rules above are biased or inefﬁcient and to what extent, it is easiest to
simulate the properties of the rules by looking at how they behave under
various assumptions in terms of number and coverage of eligible rating
agencies, relative biases between rating agencies, possible assumptions about
the extent of noise in the different ratings, etc. Simulations conducted in the
ECB suggest that the second-best rating rule performs well under realistic
assumptions, and is also rather robust to changes in the rating environment.
3.3.2 Exposure calculation
Monitoring compliance with limits requires calculating the exposures con-
suming these limits. While this is trivial for some instruments, it is complex
for others, and requires substantial analysis of many practical details. As a
basic principle, all exposures should be calculated on a mark-to-market
basis.21 The exposure of counterparty limits is impacted by a range of
transactions (securities and FX outright transactions, deposit and repur-
chase agreements, futures and swaps). For outright operations (purchases or
sales of securities), replacement values should affect exposure to counter-
parties before settlement of the operation. For reverse repo operations,
exposures arise if temporarily the value of the collateral falls short of the
cash leg (which is very rarely the case, at least in case of haircuts and low
trigger-levels for margin calls). Moreover, one may consider that concen-
tration is an issue for repo operations. This can be addressed for instance by
setting an (artiﬁcial) exposure coefﬁcient for reverse repos and repos. For
instance, one may set that 5 per cent of the notional repo and reverse repo
values are deemed to be exposure to the repo counterparty, and consume
the existing limit to the counterparty.22 For reverse repos, the question also
arises how issuer limits (i.e. the limit of the issuer of the collateral used) are
affected if non-Government bonds are accepted as collateral. It is generally
difﬁcult to quantify the credit risk of accepting non-Government collateral,
since ‘double default’ (of the issuer as well as the repo counterparty) risk
depends on the default correlation between the two parties, for which there
21 This implies demanding technical requirements on the portfolio management system, which needs to be able to
compute exposures dynamically taking into account real-time transactions and market movements.
22 An alternative to address concentration risk from repo and reverse repo operations is to set maximum total volumes
towards each counterparty.
172
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 201 ---
is limited data. Formally, the joint probability of default for the counter-
party as well as issuer is PD(cpy \ issuer) is given by23
PDðcpy \ issuerÞ ¼ PDðcpyÞ · PDðissuerÞ þ q · rðcpyÞ · ðissuerÞ
¼ PDðcpyÞ · PDðissuerÞ þ q ·
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
PDðcpyÞ · ð1  PDðcpyÞÞ
p
·
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
PDðissuerÞ · ð1  PDðissuerÞÞ
p
 q ·
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
PDðcpyÞ · PDðissuerÞ
p
if PD(cpy) and PD(issuer) are both small (a natural assumption, given the
eligibility criteria for counterparties and issuers) and where q is the default
correlation. Note that the joint default probability is almost a linear func-
tion of a rather uncertain parameter q, and that this joint probability is
likely to be very small, for every reasonable level of the univariate PDs.
Finally, for OTC derivatives like interest rate swaps, the choice has to
be made between considering only actual mark-to-market values to affect
exposures, or also potential market value (at some horizon and some con-
ﬁdence level). For interest rate swaps, the ECB has opted to only consider
actual market values because, beyond a certain value, collateralization is
required.
3.3.3 The ECB’s credit limits
The ECB has adopted the following size measures in its limit-setting
formulas:
(i)
Counterparties: Equity24 (functional form: linear scheme with a kink
at the level of the median capital of counterparties);
(ii) Issuers: Minimum size of outstanding debt of a certain type as
eligibility criteria (previously, also different sizes of outstanding debt
lead to different limits);
(iii) Countries: GDP;
(iv) Types of debt instruments:25 Market capitalization.
23 See for instance Lucas (2004).
24 For counterparties, the absolute figure of equity could be used as an indicator of size but it is not a clear indicator of
the risk profile of an institution. Considering the range of innovative capital instruments issued by banks the amount
of equity reported by financial institutions alone cannot be used as a meaningful indicator of the risk assumed with a
counterparty without additional analysis. The use of Tier I capital for all counterparties would be more consistent, if
this were universally available. Tier I capital is normally lower than total equity since some equity instruments may
not meet all requirements to qualify as Tier I resources.
25 Instrument-type limits are applied for instance in the ECB’s own funds portfolio to non-Government instruments;
covered bonds; unsecured bank bonds.
173
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 202 ---
In terms of rating agencies, the ECB has used so far in its investment
operations Fitch Ratings, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s and is currently
considering to add DBRS. With regard to rating aggregation, the ECB has so
far used in case of multiple ratings, the second-best rating.26 The minimum
rating for deposits is A, and for delivery-versus-payments (DvP) operations
BBB. For non-Government debt instruments the minimum rating require-
ment is AA. Numerical equivalents of ratings and rating factors for coun-
terparty limit-setting are shown in Table 4.1.
This simplistic linear scheme was tested in the ECB against somewhat
more theoretical alternatives. For instance limits can be set such that
regardless of the credit quality, the expected loss associated with the max-
imum exposure should be the same (so limits being in principle inversely
proportional to probabilities of default); or limits can be set such that the
sum of the expected and unexpected loss would be made independent of the
credit quality (‘unexpected loss’ being credit risk jargon for the standard
deviation of the credit losses). Since the differences between these theor-
etical approaches and a simple linear scheme are however moderate, the
simplicity of the linear approach was considered more important.
The overall counterparty limit is proportional, with a kink however, to
the capital of the given counterparty and to a rating factor which evolves
as described in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1 Rating scales, numerical equivalents of ratings and correction factors for counterparty limits
Fitch long-term
investment scale
Moody’s long-term
investment scale
Standard & Poor’s
long-term
investment scale
Numerical
equivalent
Rating factor
AAA
Aaa
AAA
1
1.0
AAþ
Aa1
AAþ
2
0.9
AA
Aa2
AA
3
0.8
AA
Aa3
AA
4
0.7
Aþ
A1
Aþ
5
0.6
A
A2
A
6
0.5
A
A3
A
7
0.4
BBBþ
Baa1
BBBþ
8
0.3
BBB
Baa2
BBB
9
0.2
BBB
Baa3
BBB
10
0.1
26 Based on the Basel Committee’s proposal in the Basel Accord II to use the second best rating in case of multiple
ratings.
174
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 203 ---
If capital < (median capital27): limit ¼ capital * 35% * rating factor
If capital > (median capital): limit ¼ [(median capital) * 35% þ (capital –
(median capital)) * 17.5%] * rating factor
In fact deposits, which account for almost all of the daily counterparty
exposure, cannot have maturities longer than one month.28 Limits are also
in place for groups of connected counterparties (e.g. separate legal entities
belonging to the same banking group), to control for the most obvious
default correlations, and for overall country exposures29. Following the
general principles laid down by the Basel II Committee, limits applied to
issuers and counterparties30 are clearly documented and deﬁned in relation
to capital, total assets or, where adequate measures exist, overall risk level.
The current methodology has clear advantages since it is simple and easy
to implement. Within this framework, the ECB follows a similar approach
to those small- or middle-size asset managers which have not developed
internal credit assessment systems due to lack of resources. The combin-
ation of the two basic inputs, equity and long-term rating, deﬁnes a cost-
efﬁcient credit risk model. At the same time, the system is ﬂexible in the
sense that the addition of new counterparties can be easily considered when
requested by portfolio managers.
In the case of the ECB, two distinct credit risk methodologies are
maintained in parallel, namely one for the ECB’s foreign reserves and
another for the ECB’s own-funds portfolio. While they are based on the
same principles and at the outset were quite similar, different eligible asset
classes, different stakeholders and a signiﬁcant number of exceptions means
that they have become somewhat divergent. Two somewhat diverging
methodologies also mean that procedures and supporting IT systems are
rather complex.
Another contributor to complexity is the fact that the ECB foreign
reserves are managed by twelve NCBs, with widely differing portfolio sizes.
The implementation of the credit risk methodology (CRM) for the foreign
27 The median capital is obtained by first ordering the foreign reserves counterparties according to their capital size.
For an uneven number of counterparties, the median capital is the capital of the counterparty in the middle. If the
total number of foreign reserves counterparties is even, then the median is the mean of the capital of the two
counterparties in the middle.
28 Other specific instrument types are also subject to eligibility constraints, in particular on the allowed maturity.
29 Country risk encompasses the entire spectrum of risks arising from the economic, political and social environments
that may have consequences for investments in that country. Country exposure may be defined as the total exposure
to entities located in the country. Eligibility criteria based on external ratings are applied at the ECB.
30 Counterparty limits are limits established for credit exposures due to foreign exchange transactions, deposits, repos
and derivatives. In sum, they encompass credit risk arising from short-term placements and settlement exposures.
175
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 204 ---
reserves therefore has a number of built-in features to ensure an even
playing ﬁeld among portfolio managers. As mentioned above overall total
limits are calculated and then distributed to NCB portfolio managers
according to portfolio size. An additional level of complexity is added by a
feature permitting counterparty limits to be re-allocated between NCBs,
according to portfolio manager’s wishes.
3.4 Liquidity limits
Liquidity risk is typically the risk that a sudden increase in the need for cash
cannot be met due to balance sheet duration mismatches, inability to
liquidate assets without incurring large losses or a drying up of the usual
sources of reﬁnancing (credit lines, issuance of money market instruments,
etc.). A simple model of liquidity risk is presented in Chapter 7 Section 3.1
(or see Freixas and Rochet 1997, 227–9).
In the case of central banks, one needs to differentiate between local and
foreign currency, in so far as a central bank knows no funding risks in the
currency it issues. Despite being long-term investors and not having to
match ﬁxed date liabilities to their assets, trading liquidity risk is an issue for
central banks, although with a very particular meaning. Many central banks
need to be able to eventually liquidate some of its foreign denominated
assets for the purposes of defending their currency.31 The risk may be split
into two components: the ﬁrst being unable to intervene in the foreign
exchange market with sufﬁcient promptness; the second is the possibility
that the central bank is forced to urgently liquidate assets at a price dis-
advantage due to a lack of depth in the market.
Although unfunded FX operations are feasible (by means of forward sales
or spot sale of assets borrowed through FX swaps or repos), their useful-
ness is disputed, since sooner or later they have to be reversed. To address
this issue, many central banks have enshrined in their investment guide-
lines the maintenance of a liquid sub-portfolio made up of a few types of
instruments.32 Putnam (2004) recommends, for this purpose, to regard
securities exclusively with respect to their ease of liquidation and not to
assume that a good credit rating is sufﬁcient to guarantee the latter. Stability
31 This need is more acute in a context of currency pegs or currency board, but also exists when the currency regime is
more or less a managed float.
32 An analysis of liquidity in markets can be found in the study by the CGFS (1999).
176
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 205 ---
of the shape of the return distribution in times of market distress is there-
fore viewed as the overriding priority, especially since most VaR models are
based on normality assumptions. Return distributions with a large potential
for negative skewness are to be avoided, such as complex securities with
embedded options, while liquid markets such as major currency pairs and
some commodities should be considered more warranted to make a part of
the liquid sub-portfolio than is usually common practice.
In view of the expanding instrument universe considered by central
banks, a simple but effective way to articulate an overall policy as regards
portfolio liquidity for the reserves is to ensure, by means of a limit, that at
least a minimum amount is invested in highly liquid assets. When assessing
what is a highly liquid instrument, special care should be given to rare stress
scenarios, which might be relevant in times of foreign exchange market
turmoil. Liquidity in the context of the foreign currency reserves demands
that funds can be mobilized quickly and without large transaction costs to
fund FX interventions. FX trades settle on a Tþ2 basis, thus funds must be
available on a Tþ2 basis. Since the reserve currency of intervention will have
large reference sovereign debt markets, at ﬁrst sight a policy of accepting
government debt and very short-term deposits as highly liquid seems jus-
tiﬁed. Indeed, many assets can be considered liquid in normal circum-
stances, but a ﬂight to quality is still largely a ﬂight into Treasuries.
The size of the liquidity limit and the deﬁnition of which instruments
are considered highly liquid is obviously interrelated, in particular if the
size of the limit cannot be determined ‘scientiﬁcally’, but necessarily must
be deﬁned to a large extent based on the judgement of decision makers.
This amount should also depend on the timing of intervention, i.e. given
a certain intervention size one can distinguish between one that is con-
centrated on a single day, and one that is spread over several days. In the
latter case, portfolio managers have time to sell instruments considered
less liquid (e.g. agencies and instruments issued by the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements (BIS)) and (some) time deposits will mature. In
principle, past operations should give an indication of the amount
invested in liquid instruments that would be needed to fund a future
intervention, although an appropriate buffer should be added and also the
continuous growth in the size of foreign exchange markets should be taken
into account. An alternative possibility is to deﬁne an adjustable liquidity
limit, based on a dynamic indicator of the likelihood of an intervention.
However, the deﬁnition of such an indicator is both technically and
politically delicate.
177
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 206 ---
The ECB has opted for a simple ﬁxed-limit approach amounting to USD
10 billion. Highly liquid investments are deﬁned as: (i) cash on bank
accounts; (ii) US treasury bills, notes and bonds held outright; (iii) collat-
eralized and uncollateralized deposits with a remaining time to maturity
equal to or less than two business days.
3.5 Maintenance of risk limits
The set of eligible issuers, counterparties and countries as well as the inputs
that go into determining limits are not static. There is therefore a need for a
set of processes to cater for the maintenance of the list and the limits
associated with the list of eligible entities. In the case of the ECB, the ECB
Risk Management Division (RMA) monitors factors affecting the credit-
worthiness of countries, issuers and counterparties on a daily basis. If deemed
necessary, limits for countries, issuers and counterparties are adjusted in the
portfolio management system as soon as the new information becomes
available. This is particularly the case for changes of credit ratings. In cont-
rast, the ECB updates size parameters only annually, as changes to those are
typically limited.
The ECB RMA subscribes to credit-related information from the credit
rating agencies it relies upon. On a daily basis the division receives credit
rating actions and news from these agencies related to countries, issuers and
counterparties. An additional source of potential early warning information,
regarding the possible deteriorating credit quality of counterparties, is daily
information received from the ECB’s Internal Finance Division, indicat-
ing new and outstanding settlement failures. The information received is
checked for credit events relevant for the ECB’s foreign reserves and own
funds. In the case of a relevant event, the associated limits are adjusted in
the portfolio management system and any front ofﬁces affected are con-
tacted. If a country, issuer or counterparty is no longer eligible or if its credit
limits are reduced, NCB front ofﬁces must take the necessary actions to
eliminate or reduce the associated exposures within a time limit deﬁned
by the ECB RMA (considering the exposure, time to maturity and other
relevant parameters). In the case of the default of a counterparty, an elab-
orate set of pre-deﬁned closeout procedures is initiated. In addition, to the
monitoring of credit-related events, the ECB RMA summarizes news and
relevant credit actions and analysis in a weekly credit newsletter, sent by
e-mail to ECB staff and management.
178
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 207 ---
4. Portfolio management oversight tasks
In addition to the classical risk/performance reporting and limit compliance
monitoring that a central bank risk management unit typically takes care
of, this section also addresses some of the more mundane tasks that do not
normally draw much attention as long as they work well.
4.1 Limit compliance monitoring
The purpose of the monitoring of limits compliance is to ensure that limits
are complied with at all times and in the case of non-compliance, that the
appropriate procedures are applied in order to bring exposures back within
limits, as soon as possible. The main challenge when implementing risk
limits is to ensure that exposures are recalculated with sufﬁcient frequency
and portfolio managers can check, before a trade is committed, what its
impact on each exposure is. The monitoring of limits compliance thus
heavily relies on IT systems and it is especially critical to adequately inte-
grate the portfolio management system used by the front ofﬁce with the risk
systems in place.
In the case of the ECB, the portfolio management system, Wallstreet Suite
(formerly FinanceKit), is conﬁgured with all market (including the liquidity
limit) and credit risk limits and permits portfolio managers to check limit
compliance prior to the completion of transactions. The system checks
compliance with limits as transactions are entered and at regular intervals
during the business days. The latter is necessary as limit utilization not only
changes when positions change, but also as a consequence of changing
markets, for example due to changes in market prices or exchange rates.
When exposures change, the system generates associated log entries, con-
taining limit and exposure information. The ECB RMA uses this log to
check limit compliance.
During the morning of each business day ECB RMA checks that all limit
exposures at the end of the previous business day (deﬁned as 19:00) do not
exceed the associated limits. If one or more limits are exceeded, the reasons
for the breaches are determined. Two types of breaches are deﬁned: tech-
nical and real breaches. Technical breaches typically relate to events outside
the control of the portfolio manager (for example a change of a foreign
exchange rate or a technical problem in the portfolio management system)
and do generally not necessitate any follow-up. Real breaches, typically
179
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 208 ---
caused by an action of the portfolio manager, require the head of the
relevant front ofﬁce33 to submit a formal report to Risk Management. The
report details the circumstances that led to the breach and actions taken by
the front ofﬁce to restore the limit.34 Upon receipt of the report RMA
validates the explanation against its ﬁndings. If deemed satisfactory RMA
formally conﬁrms the ﬁndings and the proposed course of action to the
involved front ofﬁce. Otherwise the front ofﬁce is contacted via phone in
order to arrive at a mutually agreeable solution. In case of a disagreement
regarding the most appropriate way forward, the Head of ECB RMA will
contact the head of the involved front ofﬁce to resolve matters. Breaches
exceeding limits by more than 10 per cent that cannot be restored within
three business days or breaches which exceed the limit by more than 25
per cent, irrespective of the time needed to restore the limit, are reported to
the Executive Board, via an email to the board member to which RMA
reports (Internal Audit and the Chairman of the ECB Investment Com-
mittee are also informed). A similar procedure is applied in case an NCB
front ofﬁce does not follow the agreed course of action or if a limit has not
been restored within agreed timescales.
All breaches are recorded by the ECB RMA35 and are reported in a daily
risk management report sent out by email and in monthly credit limit
breach reports sent to NCBs. Real breaches are reported in the annual
reports and to the Compliance Coordination Group, which is group of
experts drawn from a representative set of ECB business areas, which assists
the Executive Board and the Governing Council in assessing the actual
compliance of the Eurosystem and the economic agents residing in the euro
area with the ECB statute and legal acts. The group, chaired by the ECB
Legal Division, submits to the Executive Board a biannual Compliance
Report on the status of compliance.
A special set of counterparty exposure limits is deﬁned in the context of a
securities-lending programme run for the ECB’s own-funds portfolio. The
programme is managed by an external agent of behalf of the ECB. On a
daily basis the agent provides exposures data on an ftp site that RMA has
access to. This data is downloaded automatically and is stored in the RMA
risk data warehouse. A report is run daily and checks the compliance against
33 It is recalled the decentralized setup for ECB foreign reserves management, means that (currently) twelve front
offices are involved in the management of the reserves. The ECB’s own funds are managed by the so-called ‘own-
funds management unit’ of the ECB’s Investment Division.
34 ‘Restoring the limit’ in this context means bringing exposure back within limits.
35 Including the storage of hard-copies of relevant documentation printed from relevant system.
180
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 209 ---
limits (agreed with the agent) and conﬁgured in the system. In the case of
a breach, the ECB’s account manager with the agent is contacted and
requested to provide a written explanation for the breach and to ensure that
the exposure is brought back within limits as soon a possible. The reporting
of breaches in the context of the automated securities lending programme
follows the same procedures as for other types of limit breaches.
4.2 Valuation – validation of end of day prices
For valuation purposes it is best practice where possible to mark to market
(or model, if market prices are not available) investment positions at least
on a daily basis. This is important not only for return and performance
calculations, but also to ensure the accuracy of risk and limit utilization
ﬁgures, as well as for accounting purposes. While portfolio management
systems typically are linked with market data services and hence are able to
reﬂect market moves during the trading day in valuations and risk ﬁgures, it
is sometimes the case that the sources conﬁgured do not provide accurate
prices and yields or at least do not do so consistently. It is therefore com-
mon practice to deﬁne a point in time at (or near) the end of the trading
day at which portfolios are evaluated by means of a special set of quality
controlled prices and yields. The ECB follows this practice.
On a daily basis, the ECB RMA validates the day’s closing prices for all
relevant ﬁnancial instruments as deﬁned in the portfolio management system.
The purpose is to ensure that the end-of-day prices recorded correspond
to observed market prices at (or near) closing time (deﬁned as 14:15 ECB
time for foreign exchange rates and 17:00 ECB time for all other prices and
rates). This is important as these prices/yields are used to mark-to-market the
foreign reserves and own-funds portfolios and the associated benchmarks at
the end of the business day. These prices are also fed into the daily accounting
revaluation procedures. Hence, these prices/yields impact directly the return
and performance of the portfolios as reported daily, monthly and annually
and also impacts the ECB’s proﬁt and loss at year end, when potential
unrealized accounting losses are transferred to the proﬁt and loss account.
The ECB portfolio management system contains a database of daily prices
for all instruments and curves deﬁned in the system. The mechanism used
for the daily freezing of prices uses the Reuters feed to the portfolio man-
agement system as a starting basis. Prices in the system are continuously
updated during the day. At freezing time, a batch server program copies the
prices observed and stores them as the frozen prices of the day. RMA,
181
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 210 ---
simultaneously, but independently, freezes the prices for all instruments by
its own means. The latter consist mainly of an in-house application that
conducts the freezing, i.e. connects to wire services and saves the prices
obtained from them at a time selected by the user. Immediately after
freezing time, the portfolio management system prices are compared to the
prices frozen by RMA. Corrections are only processed if two market sources
converge and both differ from the FinanceKit price by more than a threshold
amount set a priori for each asset type. In such cases, the most reliable market
source is taken for correction of bid-and-ask quotes.
RMA has access to two wire services – Reuters and Bloomberg – that
generally are regarded as good quality sources of market quotes, for the
majority of market sectors. Their prices are ﬁltered by proprietary rules that
aim at ensuring their quality (e.g. Bloomberg Generic Prices or Reuters
composite prices). However, these two wire services may not provide
tradable quotes, since RMA does not have access to tradable quotes from,
for instance, neither the Bloomberg trade platform nor Reuters’ link to the
GovPX quote database, which is the largest electronic trading system for the
US bond market.36 Despite these limitations, Bloomberg still allows to select
a concrete entity as quote source, if the general Bloomberg quote is con-
sidered not reliable. To a lesser extent, Reuters may also make several data
feeds which can be tapped, simply by adding a source code to the RIC, after
the ‘¼’ sign. When none of these options is available, the sufﬁx RRPS may
be used. RRPS stands for Reuters Pricing Service and is the Reuters
equivalent of Bloomberg Fair Value, i.e. a synthetic price calculated from
the curve by Reuters for less liquid instruments.37 The quality of sources has
been tested empirically and has improved over time thanks to discussions
with and suggestions received from portfolio managers.
4.3 Validation of prices transacted at
Often deals are completed on the phone or through a system that is not
linked to an institution’s portfolio management system. Hence, the data
associated with a trade often needs to be re-keyed into the portfolio man-
agement system.38 To ensure accuracy it is common practice, at least in
36 Access to GovPX prices to Reuters was considered too expensive if exclusively used as price source.
37 As illustration, the thirty-year Treasury note with ISIN code US912810FT08 (as of mid November 2006) has the
Reuters code 912810FT0¼RRPS and the Bloomberg code T 4.5 02/15/36 Govt.
38 In order to be able to ensure limits compliance prior to agreeing a trade a portfolio manager would need to enter the
deal (at least tentatively) in the portfolio management system prior to agreeing it with the counterpart or submitting
182
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 211 ---
the central banking world, to apply the four-eyes principle to deal-entry.
A ‘workﬂow’ is deﬁned where one trader agrees the deal with a counterparty
and enters it in the portfolio management system and another trader is
responsible for verifying the details of the deal and then ﬁnalizing it vis-a`-vis
the portfolio management system. After the commitment the deal will typi-
cally ‘ﬂow’ to the back-ofﬁce for settlement. Even if the four-eyes principle is
applied an additional control may be considered, namely the validation of
the price transacted at (and entered into the portfolio management system)
against the prices prevailing in the market at the time the transaction was
concluded. There may be two reasons for applying such additional checks:
1) it reduces operational risk further, in the sense that it may catch a keying
mistake, that went unnoticed through the ﬁrst validation control and 2) it
could potentially act as a guard against fraud where a trader intentionally
trades at an off-market price disadvantageous to their own institution.
In the case of the ECB the four-eyes principle is applied to all deals entered
and, the portfolio management system additionally performs a check of the
prices/yields of all transactions entered. Moreover, instrument class speciﬁc
and maturity-dependent tolerance bands, determining permissible deviations
from market price at the time a transaction is entered have been conﬁgured
in the ECB’s portfolio management system. Whenever a transaction is
committed the price/yield of the transaction is compared with that observed
in the market (i.e. to the latest price/yield for the instrument as seen by the
portfolio management system through its market data services interface).
If the price discrepancy exceeds the pre-deﬁned threshold, the system warns
the trader and a log-entry is generated. If the price is correct the trader may
choose to go ahead anyway. On each business day, RMA inspects the log-
entries for the previous business day and compares (using market data ser-
vices) the prices/yields transacted at, with those in the market at the time the
transaction was carried out. If the price can be conﬁrmed, a note is made
against the log-entry with an explanation (stored in the risk data warehouse);
otherwise the trader who carried out the transaction is contacted in order to
obtain an explanation and/or a proof of a contemporaneous market quote,
which then, if plausible, is noted against the trade.
If no plausible explanation can be obtained, a procedure analogous to
that for limit breaches is initiated. The Head of RMA formally requests the
it to an electronic trading system. ECB rules stipulate this to be the case and a deal must be fully finalized in the
portfolio management system within a maximum of 15 minutes after the deal was agreed.
183
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 212 ---
head of the NCB Front Ofﬁce to submit a formal report to RMA on the
business day following the day that the report was requested. The report
should detail why the trade was concluded at this particular price. Should
the explanation given not be satisfactory, procedures analogous to those
deﬁned for limit breaches are followed (see Section 4.1). Checks are per-
formed against mid market rates (price/yield). In case a yield is entered for
an instrument whose reasonability check is price based, the traded yield
is ﬁrst converted into a price and then the reasonability check is applied
against the price corresponding to the traded yield. Tolerance bands are
symmetric and reasonability warnings may result from both trades con-
cluded above and below market prices. The tolerance bands are calculated
separately for each market (EUR, USD and JPY), for each instrument class
and for each maturity bucket (where applicable). This separation of instru-
ments reﬂects that price volatility depends on time to maturity.
The market rate prevailing when the deal is entered into FinanceKit is
used as the benchmark rate for the comparison. Updates or modiﬁcations
made to the deal later do not change this. For instruments with real-time
and reliable market data in FinanceKit, an hourly data frequency is impli-
citly assumed as the basis for the tolerance band estimation. The hourly
frequency instead of a lower frequency was chosen in order to account for
the time lag that persists between the time a transaction is made and the
time the transaction is input and compared against the market price. It also
takes into account that independently of any time lags, transaction prices
may deviate slightly from the quoted market prices. All instrument classes
without a reliable intra-day data feed are checked against the frozen 17:00
CET prices of the previous day. The methodology applied to calculate the
rate reasonability tolerance bands is described in Box 4.2.
Box 4.2. Calculation of rate reasonability tolerance bands at the ECB
The tolerance bands are always calculated on the basis of historical market data with a
daily frequency. Hourly tolerance bands are obtained by down-scaling the daily tolerance
bands by the square root of eight. It is assumed that there are 8 trading hours a day, and
that normally, the period between the recording of the price from the price source and the
transaction would not be longer than one hour.
The tolerance bands are re-estimated annually according to the statistical properties of
each instrument class during the last year. The portfolio management system does not
support deﬁning tolerance bands for individual instruments and consequently the instruments
are divided into instrument classes and the same band is applied for each instrument within
184
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 213 ---
Box 4.2. (cont.)
the same class. The tolerance band for an instrument class (or maturity bucket) is calculated
as the maximum of all the tolerance bands for the instruments within the class.
The tolerance band is deﬁned in such a way that breaches should occur only in up to 1
per cent of trades, when the trades are completed according to the prevailing market
yield39 and assuming that there is a one-hour time-lag between the time the deal was
completed and the time the current market yield was recorded (a lag of one day is assumed
for instruments for which frozen 17:00 CET prices are used). Estimations of the actual
probability of breaches suggest that in reality the occurrence of breaches is over 5 times
rarer than the 99 per cent conﬁdence level would indicate.
The tolerance bands for single instruments are calculated based on the assumption
that the logarithmic yield changes between the trading yields and the recorded market
yields are normally distributed. The logarithmic yield change for instrument i at time t is
deﬁned as
ri;t ¼ ln
Yi;t
Yi;t1
	

where Yi,t is the observed yield of instrument i at time t. The unit of time is either an hour or
a day. The volatility of logarithmic yield changes ri for instrument i is estimated by
calculating the standard deviation of daily logarithmic yield changes during the last year.
Hourly tolerance bands are obtained by dividing the daily volatility by the square root of
eight, assuming that there are eight trading hours a day. To achieve a 99 per cent
conﬁdence that a given correct yield is within the tolerance band, the lower and upper
bounds for the band are deﬁned as the 0.05 and 99.5 percentiles of the distribution of ri,t,
respectively. Since the logarithmic yield change is assumed to be normally distributed,
ri;t  Nð0; r2
i Þ, the tolerance band for instrument i can be expressed, using the per-
centiles of the standard normal distribution, as
TB ¼ ðU1ð0:005Þri; U1ð0:995Þri ﬃ½2:58ri; 2:58ri
where U denotes the standard normal cumulative distribution function. The tolerance
band for instruments within instrument class J and maturity bucket m¼[lm, um[ is then
calculated as
TBJ
m ¼ maxfTBi : i 2 J; lm 	 mati < umg
where mati is the time to maturity of instrument i.
39 Yield is used in the remainder of this section, even if it might actually refer to price for some instruments. Yield is the
preferred quantity for the reasonability check, since the volatility of logarithmic changes is more stable for yields
than for prices in the long end of the maturity spectrum. Prices are only used for comparison if no reliable yield data
is available.
185
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 214 ---
4.4 Dealing with backdated transactions
Market values, return, performance and risk ﬁgures obviously depend on
the positions maintained in the portfolio management system. However,
occasionally it turns out, for example at the time of trade conﬁrmation
(with the counterparty), that some details of a transaction were incorrect. It
may also happen that a transaction was not entered into the system in a
timely manner or for some reason was not ﬁnalized. In such cases it may be
necessary to introduce transactions into the system or alter transactions
already entered in the system retrospectively. Such changes may impact
portfolio valuation, limit compliance and other important factors back in
time, and therefore pose a problem for compliance monitoring and for
reporting already completed. It is therefore important to have processes in
place that capture such events and ensure that 1) they cannot be used to
circumvent compliance controls and 2) any report impacted by such changes
is assessed and, if deemed necessary, re-issued. The ECB deﬁnes backdated
deals as transactions entered (or changed) in the portfolio management
system one or more days after their opening date.40 Such changes may
invalidate performance and risk ﬁgures in the portfolio management system
and risk data warehouse. Backdated deals could also cause limit breaches to
be missed, as the portfolio management system only keeps track of and
checks the present limit utilization against limits.41
On the morning of each business day, the ECB RMA checks all trans-
actions with an opening date prior to the previous business day which were
entered or changed on the previous business day. The changes are assessed,
and if necessary system processes rerun in order to cause the update of the
relevant systems.42 Special procedures associated with end of period (month,
quarter and year) reporting ensure that only very rarely is it necessary to
re-issue monthly, quarterly or annual reports on risk and performance. The
same applies to end-of-period accounting entries. Similar procedures apply in
case of changes due to incorrect static data or systems problems, which also
40 The opening date ordinarily being the date the transaction is entered into the system, but in the case of backdated
transactions may be the date the transaction would have been entered into the system, had it not accidentally been
omitted for one reason or another.
41 A backdated transaction could mask a limit breach on day T, if an offsetting transaction was entered on Tþ1 and the
original (otherwise limit breaching transaction) was entered only at day Tþ1, backdated to day T.
42 The ECB’s portfolio management system does not automatically update for example return and performance figures
that change due to transactions outside a five-business-day ‘window’. A similar ‘window’ applies to the risk data
warehouse which in normal circumstances is only updated on an overnight basis. Changes that go back less than five
business days do not in general necessitate any action in terms of systems maintenance.
186
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 215 ---
occasionally necessitate the re-evaluation of reporting that has already taken
place as well as the potential rerunning of system activities for signiﬁcant
periods of time.
4.5 Maintenance and regular checks of static and semi-static data
Substantial amounts of static or (semi static) data are required to support a
trading operation. Of particular interest to risk management are details
related to ﬁnancial instruments, issuers and counterparties as well as market
risk factors. Furthermore there may be a need to maintain data related
to ﬁxings (e.g. to cater for ﬂoating rate notes) or deliverable baskets for
futures. All this data needs to be set up and maintained. The incomplete or
erroneous set-up of ﬁnancial instruments could lead to wrong valuations
and risk exposure calculations and hence have serious consequences.
The distribution of these tasks across the organization varies, from insti-
tution to institution. In some, the back ofﬁce would be the main ‘owner’ of
the majority of this type of data and would be responsible for its mainten-
ance. In other organizations the responsibility may be split between front
ofﬁce, risk management and back ofﬁce according to the type of data and the
speed with which it may need to be set up or changed and some organizations
may have a unit speciﬁcally responsible for this type of data maintenance.
At the ECB, for the purpose of efﬁciency, a separate organizational unit
(Market Operations Systems Division) is responsible for the maintenance of
the static data in the portfolio management system. This is the same unit
which is responsible for the running and support of the portfolio man-
agement system. To facilitate this setup, the ECB has established the notion
of ‘data ownership’. In other words each different type of static data is
owned by one organizational unit. For example data related to the conﬁg-
uration of ﬁnancial instruments are owned by the ECB RMA, whereas details
related to settlement instructions are owned by the ECB Back Ofﬁce Division.
A set of procedures govern the maintenance of the data; with changes typi-
cally originating from data-owning business areas being forwarded by formal
channels to the unit responsible for the actual update of the data and updates
taking place by means of the four-eyes principle. For some data e.g. the
maintenance of cheapest-to-deliver baskets for futures contracts,43 processes
43 The cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) bond determines the modified duration contribution of a bond future contract in the
portfolio management system. Whenever a new bond is included in the deliverable basket, it may become the CTD.
If the basket in the portfolio management is incomplete, a wrong CTD bond may be selected and as a result the
contract’s impact on risk figures may be wrong.
187
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 216 ---
have been deﬁned in the data updating which ensures that the data is
maintained on a regular basis. The ECB RMA checks the integrity of the data
at regular intervals.
4.6 Maintenance of strategic benchmarks
For ﬁnancial institutions using in-house benchmarks there is a need to
ensure that benchmark properties, in particular asset allocation and risk
characteristics (duration and liquidity) stay relatively stable over time. For
example, due to the passing of time the duration of instruments held by the
benchmark shortens from month to month, and instruments may mature
or roll from one maturity bucket to the next, thus impacting asset alloca-
tion. In order to permit portfolio managers (and the staff maintaining
potential tactical benchmarks) to anticipate future benchmark changes, it is
best practice to agree on a set of rebalancing rules. As an example, one such
rule could state that ‘US bills in the zero–one year maturity bucket in the
USD strategic benchmark are held until maturity and a maturing bill is
always replaced by the latest issued bill.’
Apart from the need to maintain risk and asset allocation properties,
rebalancing transactions need to be replicable by the actual portfolios. If
the portfolio is large, this may occasionally limit the investment choices of
the strategic benchmark due to liquidity considerations and there may also
be considerations related to the availability of issuer limits.44 For performance
measurement reasons, it is important that the benchmark trades at realistic
market prices with realistic bid–ask spreads.
These represent typical areas of contention between portfolio and risk
managers due to their differing objectives. For example portfolio managers
may argue that they need to be able to replicate the benchmark 100 per cent
to ensure that any positions that they have vis-a`-vis the benchmark are
directly tractable to a decision to deviate from the benchmark. This may for
example lead portfolio managers to argue that the benchmark should not
increase exposure to a certain issuer, if the actual portfolio is already very
close to its limit due to a long position and hence cannot follow the
benchmark, thus forcing the actual portfolio to take another (if similar)
position in another issuer. Another typical topic for discussion is how
closely the benchmark should strive to follow its asset allocation. In other
44 Obviously the benchmark should respect the same constraints vis-a`-vis issuer and other limits as the actual portfolio.
188
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 217 ---
words what amounts of deviation from the asset allocation approved by
the organization’s decision-making bodies in the context of the setting of
the benchmark, are acceptable. Following the asset allocation very strictly
may lead to transactions that portfolio managers would characterize as
superﬂuous (and costly, if the actual portfolio replicates the transactions).
The ECB applies monthly rebalancing to its strategic benchmarks for both
the own funds as well as for the foreign reserves according to rebalancing
procedures deﬁned by the ECB RMA. For the ECB’s foreign reserves this
rebalancing coincides with monthly meetings of the ECB’s Investment Com-
mittee and associated changes to the tactical benchmarks. Virtual transactions
in the benchmark are studied in a template spreadsheet and once deemed
appropriate, simulated in the ECB’s portfolio management system thereby
permitting an evaluation of their market risk characteristics and the viewing
of the new benchmarks by portfolio managers, prior to their implementation.
In addition to the monthly rebalancing the ECB RMA re-invests on a daily
basis the cash holdings of the strategic benchmarks. These holdings are
generally rolled over at money market tom-next rates.
5. Reporting on risk and performance
In commercial as well as central banks, risk and performance reporting
typically occurs at least at three levels: the overall organizational level, the
department (or business unit) level, and the individual portfolio manager or
trading desk level. Often risk management will design risk and performance
reports to suit the speciﬁc needs of each organizational level.
For an efﬁcient reporting process, it is important to take into account the
audience and its speciﬁc needs. Board members tend to focus on the return
and performance over longer periods, market risk concentrations, and pos-
sibly the results from regular stress tests. Board members typically appreciate
brief and concise reports without too much detail at a relatively high fre-
quency (e.g. daily) and in-depth reports with more detail and analysis at a low
frequency (monthly or even less frequently, depending on the type of insti-
tution and its lines of business). Business area managers are likely to be more
interested in returns, large exposures and aggregate risk positions. They have
a need for daily or even more frequent reports. Portfolio managers are
interested in detailed return and risk summaries, possibly marginal risk
analysis, and individual risk positions. They have a need for high frequency
reporting available ad hoc and on-line.
189
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 218 ---
In addition to internal management reports, ﬁnancial institutions may be
subject to regulatory risk reporting. There is also a trend toward greater
voluntary disclosure of risks to the general public, as exempliﬁed by the fact
that a number of ﬁnancial institutions reveal VaR ﬁgures in their annual
reports. Central banks are following in the footsteps of their commercial
counterparts at varying pace. Some put a very high emphasis on trans-
parency, while others weigh quite carefully which information to disclose.
5.1 Characteristics of a good reporting framework
A good performance and risk reporting framework should ensure that
reports satisfy a number of properties. They should be:
(i)
Timely. Reports must be delivered in time and reﬂect current positions
and market conditions. What is timely depends on the purpose a
report serves and its audience.
(ii) Accurate (to the level possible) and internally consistent. Within the
time (and resource) constraints given reports should be as accurate as
possible, while internal inconsistencies must be avoided. Occasionally
there may be a need to sacriﬁce some accuracy for timeliness.
(iii) On target – i.e. fulﬁll the needs of their intended audience precisely.
Reports should be created with the end-user in mind. They should as
far as possible contain precisely the type of information that is needed
by the recipient presented in a way that maximizes the recipient’s
utility.
(iv) Concise. The level of detail should be appropriate. Most management
and staff do not have the time to dig into large amounts of detail.
Reporting serves its purpose best, when it is it to the point and does
not contain superﬂuous elements.
(v)
Objective and fair. Numbers tend to speak for themselves. How-
ever, analysis which may pass direct or indirect judgements on the
performance of business units must be objective and unbiased.
(vi) Available on demand (to the extent possible). With the level of
sophistication of today’s IT solutions, it is possible to provide many
risk and performance reports on-line. These types of reports may be
designed and vetted by risk management, but may be made available
to other parts of the organization who may run the reports on demand.
A selection of such reports can in many cases fulﬁll immediate and ad
hoc needs of department heads and portfolio managers.
190
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 219 ---
Furthermore, a good reporting framework also permits analysis of unforeseen
risk and performance issues. For this purpose the availability of ﬂexible and
user-friendly systems, which allow the integration of data from many sources
and allow risk management users to create ad hoc reports themselves are
obviously beneﬁcial.
Once produced, reports need to reach their audience and ideally feed-
back ﬂows the other way enabling the risk management function to adapt
and improve its output. Another consideration is ensuring conﬁdentiality
of report contents, if necessary. Excluding reports that are available directly
to end users in portfolio management or other line-of-business systems,
reports may reach their audience in the following ways:
(i)
Surface mail. Reports may still occasionally be distributed in hard-
copy using traditional internal (or external) surface mail. However,
with the technological solutions available these days this is reserved for
reports of particular importance, life-span or perhaps conﬁdentiality.
(ii) Email attachment. The most common mechanism for distributing
reports is as an attachment to an email.
(iii) Intranet based. With the advent of web-based solutions such as for
example Microsoft SharePoint or Business Objects Web Intelligence,
which make it easy for non-technical users to easily manage (parts of)
a website, a third option for distributing reports is by making the
reports available on an intranet or internet site. This may be combined
with ‘advertising emails’ containing links to newly issued reports or a
system permitting end users to subscribe to notiﬁcations about reports
issued.
The ECB RMA presently distributes most reports using email, however the
intention is to make more use of intranet-based distribution.
5.2 Making sure the necessary data is available
Signiﬁcant investment in information systems infrastructure typically goes
into establishing a solid risk and performance reporting framework. For
measuring risk and performance, at least the following two basic types of
information are necessary:
(i) Position data. Risk reporting systems require position information for
all portfolio positions. Given the sheer number of different ﬁnancial
instruments and transactions, the task of gathering these positions is
complex. Coupling this with the fact that positions in the typical
191
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 220 ---
ﬁnancial institutions may be held in a number of different systems,
each with their own data models and interfaces, and perhaps located in
various time zones, does not make the job any easier.
(ii) Market data. Market data consists of time series of market prices and
rates, index levels, benchmark yield curves, spreads, etc. The data must
be clean, complete and available in time. Often, such data must be
collected from several sources and then processed to eliminate obvious
outliers. Furthermore, to ensure a consistent picture the full dataset
should ideally be captured at the same time of the day. Obtaining,
cleaning and organizing appropriate market data is a challenge for most
ﬁnancial institutions; however, with the advent of third-party providers
that (for a signiﬁcant fee) take on these tasks, there is also the possibility
to outsource signiﬁcant parts of this work, in particular if one operates
in the more liquid markets.
Given the associated problems, in practice, for global ﬁnancial institutions,
it may not be possible to ensure 100 per cent accurate aggregate reporting of
risk (and performance) at a speciﬁc point in time. Still, with advances in
technology the problem is no longer insurmountable and global banks will
typically be able to compile a reasonably accurate risk overview, on a daily or
even more frequent basis, thanks to large investments in IT infrastructure.45
Central bank risk managers often have a somewhat easier life in these
respects. Typically they only need to retrieve and consolidate position data
from one or at most a few systems and physical locations, and the markets
they operate in are often quite liquid, hence access to data is less of a
problem. Finally, due to the instruments typically traded by central banks,
the scope of datasets required to value investments and calculate risk ﬁgures
also tends to be more manageable.
In the case of the ECB, the RMA has established a data warehouse which
integrates data from the ECB’s portfolio management system as well as from
the agent running the automated securities lending programme of the bank.
This provides the division with all relevant data to perform its risk man-
agement tasks vis-a`-vis the ECB’s foreign reserves and own funds. Given
the few sources of data, most risk calculations take place using the infra-
structure of the portfolio management system, thus ensuring full corres-
pondence between the data seen by portfolio managers directly in the
portfolio management system with data stored in and reported from the
data warehouse.
45 See also Section 6.2.
192
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 221 ---
5.3 Reporting for ECB investment operations
The ECB RMA reports regularly on risk, return and performance of both
the ECB foreign reserves and own-funds portfolios as well as the associated
strategic and tactical benchmarks. Reporting takes place at daily, weekly,
monthly, quarterly and annual frequency. The contents and frequency of
reports is determined by RMA, in consultation with the receiving business
areas. Efforts are devoted to ensure that reporting fulﬁls the criteria set
out in Section 5.1. Reports sent to NCBs are restricted to information of
common interest and efforts are made to discontinue non-critical reporting
that is used little or only used by a small number of recipients.
The ﬁgures reported are calculated by the ECB’s portfolio management
system. Return and performance ﬁgures are based on time-weighted rate of
return (TWR) and mark-to-market pricing. Exogenous in- and outﬂows are
excluded from the calculations. Performance for actual portfolios is calcu-
lated vis-a`-vis the associated tactical benchmarks and performance for the
tactical benchmarks is calculated relative to the respective strategic bench-
marks. All reporting is trade date based, i.e. transactions affect portfolios
(and all relevant risk factors) with the full market value as soon as the
transaction has been completed.
Box 4.3 sets out the regular reports regarding risk and performance
produced and circulated by the ECB RMA with respect to the ECB’s
own funds and foreign reserves. The higher frequency reports are typically
quite terse and contain high-level ﬁgures and other standalone pieces of
information, but little commentary. Lower frequency reports tend to
provide more background information and more in-depth analysis. The
following list provides a brief description of the regular reports produced
by the RMA.
Box 4.3. ECB Risk Management – Regular reports
Daily report – foreign reserves (for Executive Board members, business area
management and staff):
• Absolute and relative VaR for the aggregate actual and for the benchmark portfolios
• Cumulated return and performance ﬁgures from the start of the year
• Large duration positions (i.e. positions exceeding 0.095 duration year)
• Liquidity ﬁgure indicating the amount held by the ECB in investments considered
particularly liquid (such as US treasuries)
• Limit breaches (technical as well as real, including risk management’s assessment)
193
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 222 ---
Box 4.3. (cont.)
• Market values of aggregate portfolios
• Large credit exposures (exposures exceeding EUR 200 million).
Daily report – own funds (for Executive Board members, business area
management and staff):
• Absolute and relative VaR for the actual and benchmark portfolios
• Cumulated return and performance ﬁgures from the start of the year
• Exposure ﬁgures for automated securities lending programme
• Limit breaches (technical and real, including risk management’s assessment)
• Market values of actual portfolio
• Large credit exposures (exposures exceeding EUR 200 million).
Weekly report – foreign reserves (for NCBs’ Front ofﬁces, ECB’s Investment
Division):
• Absolute/relative VaR and spread duration for all NCB portfolios
• Note: this information is also available on-line to NCB front-ofﬁces, however only related
to their own portfolios).
Monthly performance report – foreign reserves (for NCBs’ Front ofﬁces, ECB’s
Investment Division):
• Monthly and year-to-date return and performance for benchmarks and actual portfolios
for FX reserves
• League table of monthly and year-to-date returns
• Daily returns and modiﬁed duration positions for all portfolios
• Real limit breaches for the month.
Monthly report to the Investment Committee:
• Cumulative return and performance ﬁgures to date from the start of the year and from
the date of the previous investment committee meeting, for benchmarks and aggregate
USD and JPY portfolios
• Modiﬁed duration, spread duration and absolute VaR of benchmarks and aggregate
portfolios
• Relative VaR of tactical benchmarks and aggregate portfolios
• Market values of aggregate portfolios
• Commentary of main market developments over period since the previous Investment
Committee (ICO) meeting
• Recap of tactical benchmark positions agreed at the previous ICO
• Analysis of how tactical benchmark positions and market developments resulted in the
observed performance
• Tactical benchmark positions (in terms of modiﬁed duration) broken down by instrument
class and time-bucket
194
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 223 ---
Box 4.3. (cont.)
• Evolution of return and performance since the last ICO
• Performance
attribution
(allocation/selection)
for
the
tactical
versus
strategic
benchmarks
• Return and performance of benchmarks, aggregate portfolios and individual NCB
portfolios, since the last ICO, during the last calendar month and since the beginning of
the year
• Rebalancing proposal for the strategic benchmarks for the next period
• Evaluation of investment decisions taken by the ICO three months before (hit or miss).
Quarterly report to Asset and Liability Committee:
• Evolution of market value, by currency (and gold) – in EUR and local currency
• Return and performance by currency portfolio (in local currency) since start of year
• Commentary relating evolution of market value and performance to market movements
and positions taken.
• League table of best-performing NCBs in USD and JPY portfolios
• Evolution of currency distribution and factors that have impacted it
• 95 per cent monthly VaR, with breakdown of market risks by risk factor (for foreign
reserves)
• Utilization of market risk limits (average and maximum utilization)
• Aggregate duration and spread-duration positions (averages and maximum).
Annual reports to decision-making bodies on Performance, Market
and Credit Risk – foreign reserves:
• Main changes to the management of the reserves over the year (e.g. benchmark
revisions, new eligible instruments)
• Market developments and their impact on market value of portfolios
• Return and performance of benchmarks and actual portfolios and associated analysis
• League table of best performing NCBs in USD and JPY portfolios
• Historical returns and performance of aggregate portfolios since inception
• Utilization of market risk leeway (and relative VaR) by tactical benchmarks and actual
portfolios
• Evolution of market risk in terms of modiﬁed duration and VaR over the year for actual
portfolios and benchmarks
• Risk-adjusted return, information ratios for actual portfolios and tactical benchmarks
• Limit breaches over the year
• Credit risk: counterparty usage, large exposures, measure of concentration (collateral-
ized and un-collateralized deposits)
• Instrument usage in terms of average holdings
• Analysis of credit risk (using CreditVaR methodology)
• Assessment of the strategic benchmarks (comparison with risk-free investments and
market indices with similar composition).
195
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 224 ---
Box 4.3. (cont.)
Annual reports to decision-making bodies on Performance,
Market and Credit Risk – own funds:
• Main changes to the management of the own-funds portfolio over the year (e.g.
benchmark revision, credit risk methodology changes, new issuers)
• Market developments and their impact on market value of the portfolio
• Return and performance of benchmark and actual portfolio and associated analysis
• Analysis of portfolio performance (performance attribution)
• Historical return and performance of benchmark and actual portfolio
• Utilization of market risk leeway (and relative VaR) by actual portfolio
• Evolution of market risk in terms of modiﬁed duration and VaR over the year for the
actual portfolio and benchmark
• Risk-adjusted return, information ratios for actual portfolios and tactical benchmarks
• Credit risk: counterparty usage, large exposures, measure of concentration (collateral-
ized and un-collateralized deposits), average holdings by credit rating
• Securities lending volumes and counterparty usage (also automated securities lending
programme)
• Analysis of credit risk (using CreditVaR methodology)
• Assessment of the strategic benchmarks (comparison with risk free investments and
market indices with representative compositions).
6. IT and risk management
It is virtually impossible to carry out ﬁnancial risk management without
sophisticated IT systems and staff to support them. Systems need to
gather the necessary data, generate risk information, perform analysis,
calculate and enforce limits and so forth. The overall IT architecture
should be ﬂexible and allow for easy integration of new applications and
platforms, so that risk management can easily adapt to new requirements
and keep implementation times reasonable for the introduction of new
types of business. At the same time it is important that sufﬁcient controls
are in place to ensure that systems are reliable and changes are well
managed.
This section addresses some of the issues and considerations that typically
affect the organization of IT for risk management. As in previous sections a
general discussion is contrasted with concrete details of the set-up applied
by the ECB’s RMA.
196
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 225 ---
6.1 IT architecture and standards
An IT architecture is a set of standards and guidelines, ideally derived from
business principles, that an organization’s staff and projects should adhere
to, when making IT-related decisions. The intention is to ensure that all
technology decisions are guided by the same overall principles. This in turn
increases the likelihood that the paradigms and technology on which
solutions are built are the same or similar across the organization and leads
to maximization of beneﬁts in terms of interoperability as well as economies
of scale for example in relation to maintenance and support.
Risk management systems are part of the organization’s overall IT infra-
structure and as such must comply with the same standards and guidelines as
other systems. However, due to the vast amount of information from various
business areas and systems that the typical risk management function needs in
order to operate, it has a particular interest in the IT infrastructure being
homogenous across the organization.
6.2 The integrated risk management system
Ideally all risk management reporting and compliance monitoring activities
can be achieved in real time from one single system, thus integrating all data
sources in one place and requiring risk management staff to only fully
master one system. In reality this is rarely the case, not because it is not
technically feasible, but rather because costs and continuous change make it
very difﬁcult to achieve in practice.
The classical integrated risk management system architecture comprises
the following four components. First, an underlying enterprise-wide data
transfer infrastructure, by which relevant position and risk data can be
obtained from other systems. This could for example be based on a number
of point-to-point connections between a central risk management database
and transaction-originating systems across the organization. Best practice
would suggest some type of middleware-based approach, as for example
based on the concept of an Enterprise Service Bus (ESB46). The ESB
46 An ESB provides services for transforming and routing messages, as well as the ability to centrally administer the
overall system. Whatever infrastructure is in place, it is necessary that it permits the integration of new as well as old
(legacy) systems. Literature (and vendors) cite the following key benefits, when compared to more traditional
system-interfacing technologies: faster and cheaper accommodation of existing systems; increased flexibility; scales
from point-to-point solutions to enterprise-wide deployment; emphasizes configuration rather than integration
development; incremental changes can be applied with zero down-time. However, establishing an ESB can represent
197
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 226 ---
provides services for transforming and routing messages, and can be cen-
trally administered. Whatever infrastructure is in place, it is necessary that it
permits the integration of new as well as old (legacy) systems. Second, an
integrated risk management system comprises a risk data warehouse
where the relevant information for risk (and return/performance) analysis is
(replicated and) stored together with the data calculated by the enterprise
risk system (see below). The risk data warehouse will typically be updated
on a daily basis with transaction and market data. This data is sourced via
the data transfer infrastructure. Analysis data as calculated by the enterprise
risk system will typically also be stored in the risk data warehouse. The third
element of a risk management IT architecture is an enterprise risk system,
which centrally carries out all relevant risk (and return/performance cal-
culations) and stores the results in the risk data warehouse. As a special case,
when the organization is in the fortunate situation of only having one
integrated system, this system may be integrated with front- and back-ofﬁce
systems, so that portfolio management data (trading volumes and prices) all
reside in the same system and are entered almost in real time. The main
advantage of this, as regards risk management, is that traders can simulate the
risk impact of an envisaged transaction using their main portfolio manage-
ment tool. Finally, the risk management architecture comprises a reporting
infrastructure, permitting analysis and reporting based on the data stored in
the risk data warehouse. The reporting infrastructure could range from a basic
SQL-based reporting tool, to an elaborate set of reporting tools and systems,
permitting reporting through a number of different channels, such as direct
data access, through email or through a web-based intranet solution.
Integrity and security requirements for risk management systems must
fulﬁll the same high standards as other line-of-business systems. Hence the
management and monitoring of such systems is likely best kept with an
infrastructure group, for example as part of a central IT department.
In addition to the above-mentioned integrated risk management solu-
tion, risk managers will have access to the normal desktop computing
services, such as email, word processors etc. found in any enterprise. This is
usually supplemented by access to services of market data service providers
(such as Reuters and Bloomberg) and rating agencies (such as for example
Fitch, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s). In addition, risk managers may use
specialized statistical or development tools supplemented by off-the-shelf
components and libraries for the development of ﬁnancial models.
a very significant investment and it requires a mature IT governance model and enterprise-wide IT strategy to
already be in place. See Chappell (2004) for further details.
198
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 227 ---
What is constant for a risk management function is change. The business
always wants to expand into new markets, new investment types etc. It is
therefore critical that the ability is in place to permit risk management
systems to respond easily and cost-efﬁciently to new and changing
requirements.
The main systems and applications used by the ECB RMA are described
in Box 4.4.
6.3 The risk management IT team
An essential part of a risk management team is a group of people who
combine thorough risk management business knowledge with a good
functional understanding of the functionality of the systems in place and (at
least) a basic understanding of IT principles. These staff will typically have
the knowledge to adapt systems, when requirements change and would take
the lead when functional speciﬁcations are prepared in relation to project
work. They are also essential for the support of less IT-literate staff, and may
develop small tactical solutions or carry out minor projects that either could
not ﬁnd resources centrally or for which requirements not yet are crystal-
lized enough to form the basis for a formal project.
Such staff are often found as an integral part of a bank’s risk management
unit or part of a specialized group supporting trading and risk management
systems. Ideally these individuals are integrated into the bank’s risk man-
agement unit and have a thorough understanding of the rationale, criticality
and operational risk of each task conducted for risk management purposes.
In some organizations, it is generally the view that staff with IT expertise
should work in and belong to a central IT department. However, this does
not take the needs of the risk management function adequately into con-
sideration. The reality is that risk management is very IT heavy and that it
would be difﬁcult to run a successful risk management function without
staff with signiﬁcant IT expertise. Having IT-literate staff in risk manage-
ment also facilitates the communication and understanding between risk
management and central IT.
6.4 Systems support and operations
A risk management function requires IT systems support on least at three
levels:
 Infrastructure. As any other user of corporate IT services, the risk
management function has a need for support in relation to the provision
199
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 228 ---
of the general infrastructure, including desktop applications as well as
support in relation to the infrastructure running dedicated risk manage-
ment solutions. The latter services tend to require intricate knowledge of
the architecture and operations of the systems supported. This in turn
necessitates the establishment and retention of a group of people who have
the necessary skills, which may be expensive and tends to conﬂict with
central IT’s inclination to organize itself along lines of technology expertise
(for example Windows, network services, UNIX, database support etc.).
Without signiﬁcant attention, the latter may result in the need to involve a
signiﬁcant number of people in problem detection and resolution and may
make it difﬁcult to provide efﬁcient and timely support.
 Applications. The main applications used by risk management are usually
large complex systems such as for example a portfolio management
system with front-, middle- and back-ofﬁce functionality or dedicated
risk management systems. There is a need for support in relation to these
systems, for example to answer questions regarding functionality or to
solve conﬁguration issues. This type of support is either best provided
internally in the risk management function, if related to systems exclusively
used by risk management, or provided by a team dedicated for example to
the functional support of front ofﬁce systems. Such teams will have the
dedication and focus enabling them to build up and maintain the necessary
expertise.
 Development support. A risk management function will typically be
developing its own models, reports and even small applications. These
should be developed using tools and development environments sanc-
tioned in the organizations IT architecture. However, risk management
staff may not be familiar with all aspects of the technology utilized and may
need advice and concrete assistance from relevant IT experts. Only rarely
will this type of support be available in a formalized way47.
With respect to support of systems from either central IT or other business
areas within the organization it is best practice to establish a service level
agreement, which essentially is a contract between business areas which
determines which services are being provided and by whom, and also
stipulates expected and guaranteed worst-case response times.
47 At the ECB, a small unit has been established in the IT department, which is responsible for the development (and
subsequently for the support) of small IT solutions in collaboration with business areas. However, the emphasis in
the ECB case is still on the development (and maintenance) of systems by IT staff (or consultants managed by IT
staff).
200
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 229 ---
Box 4.4. The systems used by the ECB Risk Management
Division (RMA)
Wall Street Systems – Wallstreet Suite48
Wallstreet Suite is the integrated portfolio management system used by the ECB for the
management of the ECB’s own funds and foreign reserves. It is conﬁgured with instrument,
counterparty, country and issuer data, settlement instructions and limit data. The system
together with the static and semi-static data is maintained by a separate ECB division.
Positions and risk-ﬁgures are calculated on-line, based on real-time market data. The
system calculates all return and most risk ﬁgures; limits are monitored on-line. The
system’s risk management related semi-static data includes credit risk and market risk
limits as well as tolerance bands (for the rate reasonability check). Variance–covariance
ﬁgures for VaR calculation purposes as provided by RiskMetrics are downloaded auto-
matically by the system. The system is a key system from a risk management perspective,
as almost all position, return and risk information used by the ECB RMA originates from this
system. Although the system also incorporates back-ofﬁce functionality, only the front- and
middle-ofﬁce features are utilized fully in the ECB’s installation.
Risk Engine
The Risk Engine is the ECB RMA risk data warehouse. The system stores position, risk,
compliance and performance data related to both the ECB foreign reserves management and
the own funds. It is the main system used by the ECB RMA for compliance monitoring and
reporting purposes. The system, which is based on technology from Business Objects, was
built in-house.49 It draws most of its data from TremaSuite, as well as the agent organization
that is running the automated securities lending programme for the ECB’s own funds.
Foreign Exchange Counterparty Database (FXCD)
This system implements the ECB’s credit risk methodologies for the foreign reserves and
own funds. The system stores information about eligible counterparties, counterparty
groups, issuers and countries. Based on credit ratings obtained from the three major rating
agencies as well as on the basis of balance-sheet and GDP ﬁgures (relevant for some
sovereign issuers) the system calculates limits according to the credit risk methodologies.
The system also implements an algorithm permitting the reallocation of counterparty limits
among NCBs and facilitates the reconciliation of counterparties, counterparty groups,
issuers and countries and associated limits with TremaSuite. The bespoke system has been
built by a third-party systems developer, to speciﬁcations developed by the ECB. It is based
on a thin-client architecture. For reporting purposes it utilizes the same Business Objects
reporting infrastructure as the Risk Engine system.
48 The system was previously called Trema FinanceKit, but was renamed Wallstreet Suite following the ‘merger’ in
August 2006 of Wallstreet Systems and Trema AB, after both companies had been acquired by a team of financial
services executives backed by Warburg Pincus.
49 This was more as an integration exercise that a classical systems development project. The main technology
components of the system comprise Business Objects Reporting Tools, Business Objects Data Integrator and well as
an Oracle relational database.
201
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 230 ---
Box 4.4. (cont.)
Matlab
Matlab is a powerful general purpose high-level language and interactive calculation and
development environment that enable users to perform and develop solutions to compu-
tationally intensive tasks faster than with traditional programming languages such as C and
Cþþ. The general environment may be supplemented with a range of libraries (called
toolboxes in Matlab terminology) some of which address problems such as ﬁnancial
modelling and optimization. The ECB RMA deems Matlab to be a very productive envir-
onment for the development of ﬁnancial models, and makes substantial use of it in areas
such as strategic asset allocation, performance attribution and credit risk modelling.
Spreadsheets
Spreadsheets are the foundation upon which many new ﬁnancial products (and the
associated risk management) have been prototyped and built. However, spreadsheets are
also an IT support, management and regulatory nightmare as they quickly move from being
an ad hoc risk manager (or trader) tool to become a complex and business critical
application that is extremely difﬁcult for IT areas to support. The ECB RMA was prior to the
introduction of its risk data warehouse rather dependent on Microsoft Excel and macros
written in Excel VBA (Visual Basic for Applications) as well as an associated automation
tool, which permitted the automatic execution of other systems. Most of the regular risk
management processes for investment operations were automated using these tools. Data
storage was based on large spreadsheets and reporting used links from source workbooks
into database workbooks. Needless to say, maintaining this ‘architecture’ was quite a
challenge. However, it emerged, as of last resort, as central resources were not available to
address the requirements of RMA in the early years of the ECB and the tools used were
those that central IT were willing to let business areas use. After the introduction of a risk
data warehouse the usage of Excel has returned to a more acceptable level, where Excel is
used for analysis purposes externally to the risk data warehouse. In addition an add-in has
been constructed, which permits the automatic import of data from the risk data warehouse
into Excel for further manipulation. This represents a happy compromise between ﬂexibility
and control.
RiskMetrics RiskManager
RiskManager is a system that integrates market data services and risk analytics from
RiskMetrics. It supports parametric, historical and simulation-based VaR calculations,
what-if scenario analysis, stress testing and has a number of interactive reporting and
charting features. The system is used by RMA as a supplement to the relatively limited VaR
calculations and simulation capabilities offered by WallStreet Suite. RiskManager is gen-
erally delivered to RiskMetrics clients as an ASP solution. However, for conﬁdentiality
reasons the ECB has elected to maintain a local installation which is loaded with the
relevant position information from WallStreet Suite on a daily basis thorough an interface
available with WallStreet Suite.
202
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 231 ---
6.5 Projects
As mentioned above, one of the constant features of a risk management
function is change. Hence, the involvement in projects in various roles is the
order of the day for a risk management function. Projects vary in scope, size
and criticality. Some may be entirely contained within and thus be under full
control of the risk management function, some may involve staff from other
business areas and in others risk management may only have a supporting role.
In most organizations there is excess demand for IT resources and hence
processes are established that govern which initiatives get the go-ahead and
which do not. Due to their importance these decisions often ultimately need
the involvement of board-level decision makers. Hence, also in this context
is it important that risk management has a high enough proﬁle to ensure
that its arguments are heard, so that key risk management projects get the
priority and resources required.
For cross-organizational projects it is common practice to establish a
steering group composed of managers from the involved organizational units
and have the project team report to this group. It is also quite common to
establish a central project monitoring function to which projects and steering
groups report regularly. However, for small projects such structures and the
associated bureaucracy is a signiﬁcant overhead; hence there tends to be a
threshold, based on cost or resource requirements, below which projects may
be run in a leaner fashion, without following the normal bureaucracy or a
leaner version thereof. With respect to the setup and running of projects the
following general remarks may be made. They are based on a combination of
best practice from literature and hard-earned experience from the ECB. First,
before a project starts it is crucial that its objectives are clear and agreed
among its stakeholders. Otherwise it will be difﬁcult for the project team to
focus and it will be difﬁcult ex post to assess whether the effort was worth-
while. Early in the project it is also important that the scope of the project is
clearly identiﬁed. The depth to which these elements need to be documented
depends on the size and criticality of the project. Second, if at all possible one
should strive to keep the scope of projects small and the timeline short. If
necessary the overall scope should be broken down into a number of sub-
projects, to ensure a short development/feedback cycle. Long running pro-
jects tend to lose focus, staff turnover impacts progress and scope creep kicks
in. Third, establish a small, self-contained and focused team. A few people
with the right skills and given the right conditions can move mountains. In a
small and co-located team, communication is easy and the associated
203
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 232 ---
overheads and risks (of misunderstandings) are minimized. A team that is
spread across locations or needs to interact with a large number of other
teams or departments for support is not likely to be particularly efﬁcient, as
communication is hindered and other teams have their own priorities. Part-
time team members should be kept to a minimum and time-slicing of key
team members should be avoided altogether. Fourth, expectations should be
managed. The project should not be over-sold and it should be ensured that
management are well aware of potential risks and complications both from
the outset and throughout the development and testing stages. If possible,
one should under-promise and over-deliver. Finally, management support
needs to be ensured. For large and complex projects it is crucial for success in
the long run that management is convinced of the project’s necessity. Projects
of non-negligible size will likely run into one or more problems during their
lifetime. With the support of fully committed local management such issues
are much easier to overcome. For larger projects, ideally a project ‘sponsor’ in
senior management should be identiﬁed, who could prove very useful if any
roadblocks need to be moved out of the way during the course of the project.
When central IT resources are scarce there may be an argument for also
trying out concepts locally in a setting where risk management staff
prototype solutions themselves. This avoids the initial bureaucracy and
communications hurdles and permits quick progress. Also the resource
consumption can be adjusted according to the demands of other tasks which
may temporarily take priority. Such an approach means that central IT staff
is only involved at a point where the concept is reasonably mature and hence
saves the IT resources until such time when they really are needed.
6.6 Build or buy
One is often faced with the choice between developing a solution in-house
and acquiring it from a vendor instead. Even if in recent years, when the
trend has moved more and more towards purchasing systems, there are no
hard-and-fast rules that determine the optimal solution, and hence in most
cases a careful analysis must be done, prior to making a decision. Also, all
but the most simple implementations are neither a full off-the-shelf solution
nor a full in-house build. Typically an in-house build will rely on a number
of ﬁnished components acquired from vendors and an off-the-shelf solution
will, if nothing else, typically be reliant on the development or conﬁguration
of bespoke interfaces to existing in-house systems. So it is often not a
question of one or the other, but where in the spectrum between a full in-
house development and a complete off-the-shelf solution a project lies. In
this context, the following should be given consideration.
204
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 233 ---
 Importance of match with existing business processes. Often a system
acquired from a vendor comes with its own assumptions and paradigms.
Sometimes these represent best practice and it may be worthwhile to
consider whether to adjust in-house practices accordingly. However, in
other cases they just represent yet another alternative and may therefore
not warrant a change to in-house practices and there may be other
overriding reasons for not making such changes.
 Fit with requirements. An in-house development can be tailored to ﬁt
the requirements of the business exactly. This is obviously a strength, if
the business area knows clearly what it wants. However, at the same time
it can also constitute a risk, as it may turn out that some requirements
were not quite as fully thought out as originally envisaged and hence an
element of trial-and-error may creep into the development process. A
third-party solution on the other hand may not offer quite as good a ﬁt;
however, as it is likely not to be the ﬁrst installation, and the system may
have gone through a number of revisions and improvements it will
probably offer a more stable and robust solution. It is also likely to cover
a wider functional scope, which may not be required initially, but may
make it easier to extend the solution in the future.
 Fit with IT standards. A bespoke system can obviously be tailored to ﬁt
exactly with the IT standards set by the organization while it may not be
possible to ﬁnd a third-party system which adheres to the IT standards set.
However, if the latter is the case then either the system must be very
specialized or perhaps the standards set may be too constraining and might
need a revision. If there are no other good reasons for attempting an
in-house solution then perhaps it may be a case of the tail wagging the dog,
and hence one should push for a revision of IT standards.
 Availability of in-house expertise and ability to retain it. An in-house
build to a large extent necessitates the availability of the required skills
in-house. For risk systems such skills comprise detailed ﬁnancial know-
ledge (for example related to the calculation of performance, valuation
of instruments), in-depth IT systems knowledge such as expertise with
relational databases, programming languages, systems architecture etc.
While some recourse may be taken to consultancy, it is crucial that
experienced staff with such skills are available in-house and that the
organization will be available to retain these staff in the future.
 Risks and costs. Everything else being equal, the complexity and hence
the risks for time delays, cost overrun and insufﬁcient quality are
signiﬁcantly higher with an in-house build than the purchase of an off-
the-shelf solution. Costs include costs of staff, data, software licensing
205
Risk control, compliance monitoring and reporting

--- Página 234 ---
and consultancy. As a central bank’s core competency obviously does not
lie with systems development it would be surprising if it could compete
with systems vendors on cost. Furthermore, system vendors will have the
advantage of economies of scale, as they may sell the same or very similar
solutions to many institutions.
6.7 Complete outsourcing of IT systems – application service provider solutions
Historically, ﬁnancial institutions have often been developing their own
trading and risk systems. Today, trading systems are traditionally bought
more or less off the shelf and an increasing number of companies also
outsource risk technology development to take advantage of the work that
has already been put into risk analytics by third parties and to potentially
beneﬁt from the associated reduction in costs.
Application service providers (ASPs) provide computer-based services to
customers over a network, typically the internet. Applications offered using
the ASP model are also sometimes called on-demand software or software as
a service (SaaS). Vendors provide access to a particular application or a suite
of applications (such as a risk management or performance attribution
solution) using a standard protocol such as HTTP, which typically enables
customer organizations to deploy the application to end users by means of
an internet connection and a browser.
Often ASP solutions have low up-front investment costs as they require
little technology investment by the customer and often are provided as pay-
as-you-go solutions. This makes such solutions particularly attractive to
small- to medium-sized businesses. In addition, ASP solutions to a large
extent eliminate issues related to software upgrades, by placing the onus on
the ASP to maintain up-to-date services, 24 · 7 technical support, as well as
physical and electronic security and in-built support for business continuity.
While such services are often an attractive proposition they also pose some
problems, such as potential conﬁdentiality issues, as the client must trust the
ASP with data which may be highly conﬁdential and this data also has to be
transferred reliably and without loss of conﬁdentiality across for example the
internet. Other potential problems relate to the timing of upgrades, which no
longer is under the control of the customer, and what might happen if the ASP
provider runs into ﬁnancial or other trouble. The latter could cause an abrupt
discontinuation of a service which the client in the meantime may have become
highly reliant upon. While such problems may also arise with traditional
suppliers, providing systems are installed on-site, these problems are less
imminent, as the services are fully under the control of the client organization.
206
Manzanares, A. and Schwartzlose, H.

--- Página 235 ---
5
Performance measurement
Herve´ Bourquin and Roman Marton
1. Introduction
Performance analysis can be considered the ﬁnal stage in the portfolio
management process as it provides an overall evaluation of the success of
the investment management in reaching its expected performance objective.
Furthermore, it identiﬁes the individual contributions of each of its com-
ponents and underlying strategies to the overall performance result. The
term ‘performance analysis’ covers all the techniques that are implemented
to study the ﬁnancial results obtained in the portfolio management process,
ranging from simple performance measurement to performance attribution.
This chapter deals with performance measurement, which in turn can be
loosely deﬁned as the analytical framework underlying the calculation and
assessment of investment returns. Chapter 6 introduces performance attri-
bution as the second leg of a performance analysis.
Where Markowitz (1952) is often considered to be the founder of modern
portfolio theory (the analysis of rational portfolio choices based on the
efﬁcient use of risk), Dietz (1966) may be seen as the father of investment
performance analysis. The theoretical foundations of performance analysis
can be traced back to classic economic equilibrium and corporate ﬁnance
theory. Over the years, numerous new concepts that describe the interde-
pendencies between return (ex ante and ex post) and risk measures by the
application of speciﬁc factor models have been incorporated into the
evaluation of investment performance (e.g. Treynor 1965; Sharpe 1966;
Jensen 1968). Most of these models can be implemented directly into the
evaluation framework, whereby the choice of a method should match the
investment style of the portfolio management.
A critical component of any performance analysis framework is given by
the deﬁnition of a benchmark portfolio. A benchmark portfolio is a refer-
ence portfolio that the portfolio manager will try to outperform by taking
207

--- Página 236 ---
‘active’ positions against it. These active positions are the expression of an
investment strategy of the portfolio managers, who – depending on their
expectations of changes in market prices and on their risk aversion – decides
to deviate from the risk factor exposures of the benchmark. In contrast,
purely passive strategies mean that portfolio managers simply aim at rep-
licating the chosen benchmark, focusing e.g. on transaction cost issues.
Central banks usually run a rather passive management of their investment
portfolios, although still some elements of active portfolio management
are adopted and out-performance versus benchmarks is sought without
exposing the portfolio to a signiﬁcantly higher market risk than that of the
benchmark (sometimes called ‘semi-passive portfolio management’). Pas-
sive investment strategies may be viewed as being directly derived from
equilibrium concepts and the Capital Asset Pricing Model (which is
described in Section 3.1). The practical applications of this investment
approach in the world of performance analysis are covered in Section 2 of
this chapter.
While the literature on the key concepts of performance measurement is
wide, such as e.g. Spaulding (1997), Wittrock (2000), or Feibel (2003), it
does not concentrate on the speciﬁc requirements of a public investor, like
a central bank, which typically conducts semi-passive management of ﬁxed-
income portfolios with limited spread and credit risk. The ﬁrst part of this
chapter presents general techniques to properly determine investment
returns in practice, also with respect to leveraged instruments. The sub-
sequent section then focuses on appropriate risk-adjusted performance
measures, also extending them to asymmetric ﬁnancial products which are
in some central banks part of the eligible instrument set. The concluding
Section 4 presents the way of performance measurement at the ECB.
2. Rules for return calculation
The ‘global investment performance standards’ (GIPS) are a set of recom-
mendations and requirements used to evaluate investment management
practice. It allows the comparison of investment performance internation-
ally and provides a ‘best practice’ standard as regards transparency for the
recipients of performance reports. The GIPS were developed by the
‘Investment Performance Council’ and were adopted by the ‘CFA Institute
Board of Governors’ – the latest version is of 2005 (see Chartered Financial
Analyst Institute 2006).
208
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 237 ---
2.1 Basic formulae
It is a requirement of the GIPS that the calculation of the single-period
return must be done using the time-weighted rate of return (TWRR) method
in order to neutralize the effect of cash ﬂows (see e.g. Cotterill 1996 for
details on the TWWR). The term ‘time-weighted rate of return’ was chosen
to illustrate a measure of the compound rate of growth in a portfolio. Both
at instrument level and aggregate level (e.g. portfolio level) the TWRR based
on discrete points in time Dt ¼ [t – 1; t] is determined as follows:
TWRRdisc; Dt ¼ MVt  CFin;t þ CFout;t  MVt1
MVt1
¼ MVt  CFin;t þ CFout;t
MVt1
 1
ð5:1Þ
where TWRRdisc,Dt is the time-weighted return in period Dt; MVt  1 is the
market value (including accrued interest) at the end of time t  1; MVt is
the market value (including accrued interest) at the end of time t; CFin,t and
CFout,t are the cash inﬂows and outﬂows during period Dt.
The cash ﬂows adjustment is done both at instrument and portfolio level.
At instrument level, CFin,t and CFout,t occur within the portfolio and are
induced by trades (e.g. bond buy or sale) or by holdings (e.g. coupon or
maturity payments). At portfolio level CFin,t represent ﬂows into the
portfolio and CFout,t are ﬂows out of the portfolio. As this method elimi-
nates the distorting effects created by exogenous cash ﬂows,1 it is used to
compare the returns of investment managers.
The TWRR formula (5.1) assumes that the cash ﬂows occur at the end of
time t. Following a different approach, the cash ﬂow occurrence can be
treated as per beginning of t.2 The alternative TWRR*disc,Dt is then
TWRR
disc;Dt ¼
MVt  MVt1
MVt1 þ CFin;t  CFout;t
ð5:2Þ
1 The following example illustrates the neutralization of the cash flows by the TWRR. Assume a market value of 100 on
both days t–1 and t; therefore, the return should be zero at the end of day t. If a negative cash ﬂow of 10 occurs on
day t, the market value will be 100 – 10 ¼ 90 and the corresponding TWRR will be
MV end
MV begin
 1 ¼ 100  10 þ 10
100
 1 ¼ 100
100  1 ¼ 0:
2 In practice, the end-of-period rule is more often used than the start-of-period approach. A compromise would be
weighting each cash flow at a specific point during the period Dt as the original and the modiﬁed Dietz methods do –
see Dietz (1966).
209
Performance measurement

--- Página 238 ---
If the return calculation is done based on speciﬁc (ﬁnite) points in time (e.g.
on a daily basis) then the resulting returns are called discrete-time returns –
as shown in equations (5.1) and (5.2). For ex post performance measure-
ment, in practice discrete-time returns are the appropriate instrument
to determine the growth of value from one relevant time unit (e.g. day t  1)
to another (e.g. day t). A more theoretical method is the concept of con-
tinuously compounded returns (also called continuous-time returns).
Discrete-time returns are converted into their continuous-time equivalents
TWRRcont,Dt by applying equation (5.3):
TWRR cont;Dt ¼ ln 1 þ TWRR disc;Dt


ð5:3Þ
As its name already indicates, the continuously compounded return is the
product of the geometrically linked (factorized) returns of every inﬁni-
tesimal small time unit within the analysis period. The main disadvantage of
this approach is that underlying market values are not intuitively under-
standable and, hence, it is rather difﬁcult to explain those performance
results to a broad audience, since they assume that the rate of growth of a
portfolio can be compounded continuously – over every inﬁnitesimal (and
therefore theoretical) time interval. Practitioners can better size the sense of
a return when it captures the actual evolution of the market value and cash
ﬂows at end versus the start of the observation day. Even if logarithmic
returns possess some convenient mathematical attributes (e.g. linkage over
time can be processed additively in contrast to discrete returns for which the
compounding must be done multiplicatively), discrete-time time-weighted
returns are usually favoured by practitioners. The returns in this chapter will
thus from now on represent discrete-time time-weighted returns.
Once one has generated the TWRR for every given instrument for each
given single period, the return on a portfolio for the total period is calculated
in two steps. First, for the speciﬁed discrete time unit Dt (e.g. the course of
a day), the returns on the different instruments that compose a portfolio are
arithmetically aggregated by the respective market value weights, i.e.
RP;Dt ¼
X
N
i¼1
ðRP;i;Dt · wP;i;t1Þ
ð5:4Þ
where RP,Dt is the portfolio return and RP,i,Dt is the return on the i-th
component of portfolio P in period Dt, respectively; wP,i,t–1 is the market
value weight of the i-th component of portfolio P as of day t – 1; and N is
the number of components within portfolio P.
210
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 239 ---
In a second step, the portfolio return is quantiﬁed for the whole period
observed. The return RP,DT for the entire period DT is obtained by geo-
metrically linking the interim (i.e. single-period) returns (this linkage
method is also a requirement from the GIPS):
RP;DT ¼
Y
8Dt2DT
ð1 þ RP;DtÞ  1
ð5:5Þ
So far, the case of the determination of return ﬁgures in a single-currency
world has been presented. But the foreign reserves portfolios of central
banks consist by deﬁnition of assets denominated in multiple currencies.
The conversion of currency-local returns into returns in base currency is
given by
RBase;Dt ¼ ð1 þ Rlocal;DtÞ · ð1 þ Rxchrate;DtÞ  1
ð5:6Þ
where for period Dt: RBase,Dt is the total return in base currency (e.g. EUR);
Rlocal,Dt is the total return in local currency; and Rxch-rate,Dt is the change of
the exchange rate of the base currency versus the local currency. As it can be
seen in Section 4.1 of Chapter 6 on performance attribution, this multi-
plicative relationship leads to intra-temporal interaction effects in additive
attribution models.
2.2 Trade-date versus value-date approach
The general requirement for a sound performance measurement is that the
mark-to-market values are applied, i.e. all future cash ﬂow must be properly
discounted. For example, when a bond is bought, the market value of the
position related to this transaction at trade date is the net of the market
value of the bond at trade date and the discounted value of the settlement
amount. The general description of this approach to performance mea-
surement is commonly referred to as the trade-date approach. It is often
compared with the so-called value-date approach, where in the case of a
purchase of a bond, this position would only appear in the market value of
the portfolio at value (i.e. settlement) date. Accordingly, the price of the
bond would not inﬂuence the market value of the portfolio in the period
between trade and value date. This is not satisfactory since market move-
ments in the position from trade date (when the actual investment decision
is taken) are not taken into account as opposed to the trade-date approach
and as all modern standards for performance measurement recommend.
211
Performance measurement

--- Página 240 ---
The trade-date approach has actually three main advantages. Firstly, port-
folio injections and divestments impact properly the portfolio market value
at trade date. Secondly, from trade date on it calculates correctly the return
on an instrument consecutive to its purchase or sale. Finally, payments (e.g.
credit interest, fees, etc.) are properly reﬂected in the performance ﬁgures
as of trading date.
2.3 Actual versus all-cash basis
In principle there are two ways for a portfolio to outperform a corres-
ponding benchmark. First, by selecting bonds, i.e. by being over- (under-)
exposed relative to the benchmark in those bonds with a better (worse)
performance than the benchmark. This covers yield-curve and duration
position taking as well as pure bond selection. Second, by using leveraged
instruments, i.e. by using instrument with a different payoff structure than
the normal spot bonds. Leveraged instruments include forwards, futures,
options etc. In order to separate the two out-performance factors, the GIPS
require that the performance be measured both on actual basis and all-cash
basis. These concepts can be deﬁned as follows. Actual basis measures the
growth of the actual invested capital; i.e. it is a combination of both ﬁxed-
income instrument picking and used leverage. This is the conventional
method of measuring (active) returns by looking at the growth in value of
the funds invested. All-cash basis tries to eliminate the effect of the used
leverage by restating the position into an equivalent spot position having the
same market exposure. The return is then stated under the following form:
(MVend – Interestmargin) / MVstart where Interestmargin corresponds to the
daily margin.3 This removes the effect of the leverage on the return. The all-
cash basis (active) return is consequently the (active) return measured on
the restated cash equivalent positions. The comparison of the actual and all-
cash basis returns allows calculating the return at the level of the leveraged
instruments or leveraged instruments types (e.g. daily return for a given
bond future or for all bond futures included in a portfolio).
3 After entering a futures contract the investor will have a contract with the clearer, while the clearer will have a
contract with the clearing house. The clearer requires the investor to deposit funds (known as initial margin) in a
margin account. Each day the futures contract is marked-to-market and the margin account is adjusted to reflect the
investor’s gain or loss. This adjustment corresponds to a daily margin that is noted Interestmargin in the formula of the
text above. At the close of trading, the exchange on which the futures contract trades, establishes a settlement price.
This settlement price is used to compute the gains or losses on the futures contract for that day.
212
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 241 ---
When managers use leverage in their portfolio, then the GIPS require that
the returns be calculated on both the actual and the all-cash basis. Since the
benchmarks of most central banks portfolios are normally un-leveraged, the
comparison between benchmark and all-cash basis returns shows the
instrument selection ability of the fund manager, whereas the difference
between the actual and the all-cash basis returns indicates how efﬁcient the
use of leverage in the fund management was, i.e. MVend / MVstart – (MVend –
Interestmargin) / MVstart ¼ Interestmargin / MVstart.
3. Two-dimensional analysis: risk-adjusted performance measures
3.1 Capital Asset Pricing Model as a basis
Investors have a given level of risk aversion, and the expected return on their
investment depends on the level of risk they are ready to bear. Therefore,
considering the return dimension in performance measurement would only
be half of the truth. The insertion of the risk dimension into the per-
formance analysis has been formalized by the Capital Asset Pricing Model
(CAPM) and its diverse modiﬁcations and applications (Treynor 1962;
Sharpe 1964; Lintner 1965; Mossin 1966). The capital market line which
represents the ray connecting the proﬁles of the risk-free asset and the
market portfolio M in a risk–return diagram is given by
RP ¼ RF þ
RM  RF
rðRMÞ
	

 rðRPÞ
ð5:7Þ
where RF is the risk-free rate; RP is the return on investment portfolio P; RM
is the return on market portfolio M; r(RP) is the standard deviation of
historical returns on investment portfolio P; and r(RM) is the standard
deviation of historical returns on market portfolio M.
This relationship implies that in equilibrium the rate of return on every
asset is equal to the rate of return on the risk-free asset plus a risk premium.
The premium is equal to the price of the risk multiplied by the quantity of
risk, where the price of risk is the difference between the return on the
market portfolio and the return on the risk-free asset. The systematic risk,
i.e. the beta, is deﬁned by
bP ¼ rðRP; RMÞ
r2ðRMÞ
ð5:8Þ
213
Performance measurement

--- Página 242 ---
where bP is the beta of investment portfolio P with respect to market
portfolio M; r(RP,RM) is the covariance between the historical returns on
investment portfolio P and market portfolio M; and r2(RM) is the variance
of historical returns on market portfolio M.
By using the beta expression, the CAPM relationship can be written as
follows:
RP ¼ RF þ bP  ðRM  RFÞ
ð5:9Þ
In the following paragraphs of this section two groups of selected risk-adjusted
performance ratios are presented. The ﬁrst one is applied to the absolute
return, comprising the Sharpe and Treynor ratios, while the second group
consists of extended versions, i.e. reward-to-VaR and information ratios, that
are focusing on relative return (i.e. performance). All of these measures are
considered to be relevant for the return and performance analysis of a central
bank’s portfolios. The second group identiﬁes the risk-adjusted performance
due to the portfolio management relative to a benchmark – this allows us to
determine how successful the management activity (passive, semi-passive or
active) has been in the performance generation process.
3.2 Total performance: Sharpe ratio
The Sharpe ratio SRP of portfolio P (or reward-to-variability ratio as it was
originally named by Sharpe) is deﬁned (in its ex post version) as follows (see
Sharpe 1966):
SRP ¼ RP  RF
rðRPÞ
ð5:10Þ
Comparing with formula (5.7) reveals the intuition behind this measure: if
the ratio of the excess return and the total risk of a portfolio lies above
(beneath) the capital market line, it will represent a positive (negative) risk-
adjusted performance versus the market portfolio. Since central banks are
naturally risk averse and manage their portfolios in a conservative manner
by taking limited active leeway against the benchmark, the core of the return
is generated by the benchmark, while the performance of the managed
portfolio against its benchmark represents a small fraction of the overall
return. An appropriate performance/risk ratio could therefore provide
information regarding the ‘efﬁciency’ of the reference benchmark. The
major problem by using the Sharpe ratio as a performance measure in
214
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 243 ---
a central bank is that its interpretation can be difﬁcult. To use it for an
assessment, one would ideally have to compare it with the Sharpe ratio of a
market index having exactly the same characteristics in terms of credit risk,
market risk and liquidity proﬁle as the benchmark. However, by doing so,
one would obtain a reference Sharpe ratio that should be almost identical
to the one of the measured portfolio. For that reason, the ECB calculates
the Sharpe ratio of its benchmarks, but considers this ratio more as an
indicative ex post measure rather than an efﬁcient performance indicator.
There is an alternative pragmatic approximation which allows making
use of the Sharpe ratio under these circumstances. Assuming that the
market index, which should be used for the comparison, took the same total
risk as the benchmark, the implied return for the market index could be
calculated via the capital market line of the market index. When comparing
the returns on the portfolio and the hypothetical market index (with the
same risk exposure as the benchmark) the risk-adjusted out-/underper-
formance, the portfolio alpha aP, can be determined:
aP ¼ RP  RF þ SR Index  rðRBÞ
ð
Þ ¼ SRP  rðRPÞ  SR Index  rðRBÞ
ð5:11Þ
where SRIndex is the Sharpe ratio of the market index (any representative
market index in terms of asset classes and weightings) and r(RB) is the
standard deviation of historical returns on benchmark B.
To be able to rank different portfolios with different risk levels (i.e. to
compare the risk-adjusted out- or underperformances), it is in addition
necessary to normalize the alphas, i.e. to set them to the same total risk unit
level by dividing by the corresponding portfolio standard deviation. The
resulting performance measure is called the normalized portfolio alpha
anorm,P (see Akeda 2003):4
a norm;P ¼ aP
rP
ð5:12Þ
3.3 Passive performance: Treynor ratio
The ex post Treynor ratio TRP of portfolio P is given by (see Treynor 1965)
TRP ¼ RP  RF
bP
ð5:13Þ
4 See also Treynor and Black (1973) for adjusting the Jensen alpha by the beta factor.
215
Performance measurement

--- Página 244 ---
This performance indicator measures the relationship of the portfolio
return in excess to the risk-free rate and the systematic risk – the beta – of
the portfolio. The ratio can be directly derived from the CAPM (with the
benchmark portfolio B replacing the market portfolio M):
RP  RF
bP
¼ RB  RF
ð5:14Þ
The left-hand-side term is the Treynor ratio of portfolio P and the expression
on the right-hand side can be seen as the Treynor ratio for the benchmark B,
because the beta against the benchmark itself is one. The Treynor ratio is a
ranking measure (in analogy to the Sharpe ratio). Therefore, for a similar
level of risk (e.g. if two portfolios replicate exactly the benchmark and thus
are managed passively against that benchmark) the portfolio that has the
higher Treynor ratio is also the one that generates the highest return of
the two.
For the purpose of measuring and ranking risk-adjusted performances of
well-diversiﬁed portfolios, the Treynor ratio would be a better measure than
the Sharpe ratio, because it only takes into account the systematic risk which
cannot be eliminated by diversiﬁcation. For its calculation, a reference
benchmark must be chosen upon which the beta factor can be determined.
In case of skewed return distributions (that are mainly the case for low
modiﬁed duration portfolios) a distorted beta and Treynor ratio can occur
(see e.g. Bookstaber and Clarke 1984 on incorrect performance indicators
based on skewed distributions). The majority of the central bank currency
reserves portfolios and their representative benchmarks normally do not
consist of instruments with embedded optionalities (i.e. uncertain future
cash ﬂows), and so the empirical return distributions should not deviate in
a signiﬁcant manner from the normal distribution in terms of skewness and
curvature.
3.4 Extension to Value-at-Risk: reward-to-VaR ratio
The quantile-based VaR has evolved rapidly to one of the most popular and
widespread tools in ﬁnancial risk measurement (see e.g. Jorion 2006 and
Holton 2003),5 not at least because of its enshrinement in capital adequacy
5 See also Marton, R. 1997, ‘Value at Risk – Risikomanagement gema¨ß der Basler Eigenkapitalvereinbarung zur
Einbeziehung der Marktrisiken’, unpublished diploma thesis, University of Vienna.
216
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 245 ---
rules. If the VaR concept is used for risk control, it could also be incor-
porated into the risk-adjusted performance analysis. This could be realized
by applying the reward-to-VaR ratio proposed by Alexander and Baptista
(2003), which is based on the Sharpe ratio (i.e. reward-to-variability ratio).
The reward-to-VaR ratio measures the impact on ex post portfolio return
of an increase by one percentage of the VaR of the portfolio, by moving a
fraction of wealth from the risk-free security to that portfolio. The cal-
culation process depends on the assumption whether asset returns are
considered as being normally distributed or not. In the ﬁrst case the reward-
to-VaR ratio RVP of portfolio P is given by
RVP ¼
SRP
t  SRP
ð5:15Þ
whereof SRP is the Sharpe ratio of portfolio P and
t ¼ U1ð1  aÞ
ð5:16Þ
where U–1(.) is the inverse cumulative standard normal distribution function
and (1–a) is the VaR conﬁdence level (e.g. a ¼ 99 per cent implies t*  2.33).
In the case of normally distributed investment returns and if t* > SRP is
true for every portfolio then the reward-to-VaR ratio and the Sharpe ratio
will yield the same risk-adjusted performance ranking.
Assume for example that the reward-to-VaR ratios of portfolios A and B
are 0.40 per cent and 0.22 per cent, respectively, and that this ratio is equal
to 0.34 per cent for the index that is used as proxy for the market portfolio.
The investor in A would have earned on average an additional 0.40 per cent
per year, bearing an additional percentage point of VaR by moving a
fraction of wealth from risk-free security to A. In this example, A outper-
formed the market portfolio and portfolio B, and B underperformed both A
and the market portfolio. The return on these portfolios was assumed to be
normal – had it not been the case, formula (5.15) could not have been
applied.
3.5 Active performance: information ratio
The information ratio is the most common tool to measure the success or
failure of the active investment management of a portfolio versus its
benchmark. The information ratio (sometimes also called appraisal ratio) is
deﬁned as the quotient of the active return (alpha) on a portfolio to its
217
Performance measurement

--- Página 246 ---
active risk (see among others Goodwin (1998) for a substantial description
of the information ratio). Sharpe (1994) presented the information ratio as
a kind of generalized Sharpe ratio by replacing the risk-free return by the
benchmark return.
The active return can be described as the component of the portfolio
return which cannot be explained by the benchmark return, and the active
risk represents the volatility of the active returns. In its ex post version,
which is the suitable calculation method for the performance evaluation
process, the information ratio is computed as follows:
IRP ¼ RP  RB
TEexpost;P
ð5:17Þ
The actively taken risk is represented by the ex post tracking error TEex-post,P
of the portfolio P versus the benchmark B, which is deﬁned by
TEexpost;P¼ rðRP  RBÞ
¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
1
N  1 
X
8Dt2DT
ðRP;Dt  RB;DtÞ  ðRP;DT  RB;DTÞ

2
s
¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
1
N  1 
X
8Dt2DT
ðRP;Dt  RP;DTÞ  ðRB;Dt  RB;DTÞ

2
s
ð5:18Þ
where N is the number of observed single periods; RP,Dt is the return on
portfolio P in single period Dt; RB,Dt is the return on benchmark B in single
period Dt; RP; DT is the mean return on portfolio P in entire period
DT; and RB; DT is the mean return on benchmark B in entire period DT.
The information ratio is a good measure of the effectiveness of active
management, i.e. ‘management efﬁciency’. The interpretation of the infor-
mation ratio is generally simple: the larger its value, the higher the return that
an active layer manages to achieve for a given level of risk. Therefore, the
information ratio makes it possible to classify different portfolios according to
their performance by scaling them to a unique base risk.6 It should be noted
that there are diverging opinions of how to interpret and rank negative results.7
6 As a rule of thumb, in the context of investment fund management, information ratios above one are perceived to be
excellent (see e.g. Kahn 1998).
7 For example, assuming that two portfolios are both generating a loss equal to 20 and that the tracking error of
portfolio A is 2 while that of portfolio B is 5, the comparison of portfolio B, with an information ratio of 4 and
218
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 247 ---
Despite that, in combination with the Treynor ratio, the information ratio
transmits a sound picture of the quality of a semi-passive investment mana-
gement, as it is often practiced in public institutions like central banks.
4. Performance measurement at the ECB
As introduced in Chapter 2, the ECB’s investment process for foreign
reserves has a three-layer structure comprising: (a) strategic benchmarks
(endorsed by the ECB’s Governing Council; one for each currency); (b)
tactical benchmarks (speciﬁed by an investment committee); and (c) the
actual portfolio level (managed by national central banks). The strategic
benchmarks serve a role as yardsticks for active management by providing
a ‘market allocation’ against which the performance of active layers is
measured (see particularly Section 3 of Chapter 2 for a general overview of
the portfolio management process at the ECB).
In this three-layer management structure, the main objective of the
tactical benchmark and the portfolio managers is to generate, subject to
respecting their allocated risk budget, portfolio out-performance by searching
for and implementing alpha strategies. It is not the purpose of the strategic
benchmark allocation to generate out-performance relative to the market
but rather to serve as an internal market portfolio for the active layers in the
investment process and thereby as a neutral reference point.
Every month, the performance of the tactical benchmark versus the
strategic one is reported and analysed in a working paper that is presented
to the ECB investment committee. The level of achieved performance can
impact on the medium-term investment decisions of the tactical bench-
mark’s portfolio manager who is striving to exploit medium-term market
movements not foreseen by the strategic benchmark (e.g. taking proﬁt or
stop loss by closing some proﬁtable position, opening of new positions). At
the third-level layer, the portfolio managers have as mandate to outperform
the tactical benchmark by using superior short-term analysis skills and to
exploit information that is not taken into account at the tactical level. On
a monthly basis, the performance of the NCBs’ portfolios are compiled and
portfolio A, which has an information ratio equal to 10, is not straightforward. On the one hand despite its higher
risk portfolio B was able to restrict the negative return to the same level as portfolio A; so portfolio B should have
acted better. On the other side in the context of a risk-averse investor (as central banks naturally are) for the same
return levels the one portfolio should be preferred which has taken the lower risk; this would be portfolio A.
Therefore negative information ratios should not be considered.
219
Performance measurement

--- Página 248 ---
ranked in a table in order to present the best performers. This ranking is
also provided for the entire calendar year in the risk management annual
reports. Due to the longer horizon, statistical signiﬁcance is higher com-
pared to monthly ﬁgures.
The ECB fully complies with the GIPS requirements, as outlined in the
ﬁrst section of this chapter, in order to measure the performance of its
foreign reserves and own funds portfolios: TWRR method; trade-date
approach; and both actual basis and all-cash basis measurement for lever-
aged instruments. The market value of each instrument is quantiﬁed on a
daily basis and return and performance results are computed with the same
frequency. With regard to the risk-adjusted performance measures pre-
sented in Section 3, the following has been implemented by the ECB:
 Sharpe ratio and Treynor ratio. As mentioned previously, the ECB
calculates the Sharpe ratio of its leading benchmarks, but considers this
ratio more as an indicative ex post measure rather than an efﬁcient
performance indicator. The Sharpe ratio is applied to diverse ECB’s
portfolios (notably the benchmark and actual NCBs’ portfolios), as well as
to indices having similar modiﬁed durations to these portfolios. However,
we consider the information ratio to be a more complete measure in
order to compare portfolios. Indeed the Sharpe ratio of a portfolio and
of its related benchmark provides similar information as a unique
corresponding information ratio. The Treynor ratio is not implemented
at the ECB for the sake of limiting the numbers of published measures,
since it provides only a marginal added-value in comparison to the
Sharpe ratio.
 Reward-to-VaR ratio. Since the ECB applies relative VaR limits to its
investment portfolios, this performance indicator seems particularly
appropriate to capture the VaR–return proﬁle of the bank’s portfolios
(therefore the ECB is considering incorporating it into its performance
reporting). Following equations (5.15) and (5.16), this measure assumes
a normal distribution – hence it can be applied only to instruments for
which returns are assumed to be normally distributed (which should
be approximately the case for typical central bank portfolios without
contingent claims). To circumvent this restriction for non-linear port-
folios (e.g. when including optionalities), the calculation of the reward-to-
VaR ratio could alternatively be based on the t-distribution, as discussed
in Alexander and Baptista (2003).
 Information ratio. The ECB calculates and reports to the decision-
making bodies on an annual basis the ex post information ratios of the
220
Bourquin, H. and Marton, R.

--- Página 249 ---
active management layers, as these are easily determined and considered
as good measures of the effectiveness of active management (NCBs are
also ranked according to this ratio). However, the ECB applies this ratio
only to the portfolios generating a positive performance since it considers
that the use of the information ratio for negative performance can easily
lead to counter-intuitive conclusions. Compared with industry standards,
the information ratios of the ECB’s foreign reserves portfolios managed
by NCBs tend to be above a degree of one. In the private asset management
industry, as a rule of thumb, information ratios above one are treated as
being superior. However, it should be also taken into account that the
afore-mentioned industry standards have been established for signiﬁ-
cantly larger levels of relative risk.
221
Performance measurement

--- Página 250 ---
6
Performance attribution
Roman Marton and Herve´ Bourquin
1. Introduction1
Performance attribution analysis is a speciﬁc discipline in the investment
process, with the prime objective to quantify the performance contributions
which stem from the active portfolio management decisions and to assign
them to exposures towards the various risk factors relative to the benchmark.
Typical central bank foreign reserves portfolios are composed of more or less
plain vanilla securities and also the levels of market and credit risk taken are
naturally low. Despite these characteristics, performance attribution analysis
in central banks is much harder than it might be expected. Generally, it can
be very difﬁcult to accurately separate the impacts of different ﬁxed-income
strategies, because interactions between each of them could exist in several
ways. Especially for passively managed investment portfolios with their
rather small risk factor-speciﬁc performance contributions it has proven in
practice to be a difﬁcult task of ﬁnding a balance between two of the main
features of performance attribution: intuitive clarity and analytical precision.
Over the past several years, based on the collective work of experts
involved in both practitioner and academic research, much progress has
been made on the key ingredients of modern performance attribution
analysis – yet most of the publications concentrated on models tailored to
equity portfolios (see the seminal articles of Brinson and Fachler 1985,
Brinson et al. 1986 and Brinson et al. 1991).2 Unfortunately, equity-based
techniques are not of practical relevance for investment portfolios of central
banks and other public investors which predominantly consist of ﬁxed-
income instruments, because they are not related to the speciﬁc risk factors
which ﬁxed-income portfolios are exposed to.
1 The authors would like to thank Stig Hesselberg for his contribution to this chapter.
2 The underlying concepts attribute the performance at sector and portfolio level to the investment categories asset
allocation, instrument selection and interaction.
222

--- Página 251 ---
As on the one hand only sparse literature is concerned with ﬁxed-income
attribution analysis in general (see e.g. Buchholz et al. 2004; Colin 2005) and
on the other hand hardly any published material is known which particularly
focuses on performance attribution for central banks (as ﬁrst approaches an
article by De Almeida da Silva Junior (2004) and a publication by Danmarks
Nationalbank (2004, appendix D)3 could be mentioned), this chapter takes
up the challenge of concentrating on risk factor analysis of bond portfolios
embedding the typical peculiarities of passively managed foreign reserves
portfolios, and giving the reader an overview of how attribution modelling
works in central bank practice. In addition to providing state-of-the-art
concepts of ﬁxed-income attribution techniques, also their roots, which are
to be found in the early stages of modern portfolio theory, are discussed in
this chapter.
To perform attribution modelling, the systematic portfolio risk, i.e. the
share of risk that is not eliminated by diversiﬁcation, is broken down with
the help of multi-factor models, which allow the different sources of risk to
be analysed and the portfolio to be oriented towards the most relevant risk
factors. Multi-factor return decomposition models (whereof the earliest
were already designed decades ago, e.g. Ross 1976; Fama and French 1992;
1993; 1995; 1996; Carhart 1997) can be considered to be the foundation
of ﬁxed-income attribution schemes. Therefore, Section 2 of this chapter
serves as an introductory part by dealing with return decomposition con-
cepts which are applicable to modern ﬁxed-income attribution analysis.
As the ﬁrst step in performance attribution modelling for interest rate-
sensitive portfolios, all the relevant return-driving risk factors have to be
detected which are addressed within the investment decision process of
the ﬁnancial institution in question. Section 3 illustrates the mathematical
derivation of the return determinants of interest rate-dependent instru-
ments under the aspect of a risk-averse management style; the subsequent
Section 4 introduces a choice of concepts available for performance attri-
bution modelling, incorporating the speciﬁc elements which are required to
build ﬁxed-income applications suitable for central banks and other public
investors. Before presenting some conclusions, Section 5 is dedicated to the
ﬁxed-income performance attribution framework currently applied to the
European Central Bank’s investment portfolios serving on the one hand as a
speciﬁc implementation example of analysis presented in the previous
3 In Danmarks Nationalbank (2004) the Danish central bank proposes a hypothetical ﬁxed-income performance
attribution model applicable to central bank investment management.
223
Performance attribution

--- Página 252 ---
sections and on the other hand as a paradigm of how to improve traditional
schemes.
2. Multi-factor return decomposition models
As explained in the previous chapter, the Capital Asset Pricing Model
(CAPM) acts as a conceptual instrument to derive economically intuitive
and practically useful measures of the risk-adjusted success or failure of
investment management (e.g. Sharpe ratio, Treynor ratio and information
ratio). The CAPM assumes that portfolio returns that can be adequately
summarized by expected return and volatility, and investor utility functions
are increasing in expected return and decreasing in volatility. For many
central banks both of these simplifying model assumptions are not
unrealistic, because usually only a minority of instruments (if any at all)
with non-linear payoff structures (like bond options or callable bonds) are
held in the foreign currency reserves portfolios, and also because central
banks are risk-averse investors (by passively or at least semi-passively
managing their reserves), which would correspond to concave utility
functions.
With the objective to capture ﬁnancial market reality as accurately as
possible, portfolio theorists have developed further models which have less
restrictive assumptions than the CAPM. Multi-factor models embody a
signiﬁcant important advantage over the CAPM, since they decompose the
asset returns and also portfolio returns according to their impacts from
several determinants, and not solely according to a market index. This
facilitates a more precise evaluation of the investment return with respect to
the taken risk. Although these models were originally designed to estimate
ex ante returns, the methodology can also be applied to ex post returns in
order to divide the realized return into its speciﬁc risk factor contributions.
In the following three subsections, multi-factor models are ﬁrst presented
from a theoretical perspective and subsequently from an empirical one.
2.1 Arbitrage Pricing Theory as a basis
The Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT) which was developed by Ross (1976) is
based on fewer restrictive assumptions than the CAPM. While the CAPM
postulates market equilibrium, the APT just assumes arbitrage-free markets.
The APT model also tries to determine the investment return via speciﬁc
224
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 253 ---
factors, but instead of just a single determinant it uses a number of K risk
factors providing for a more general approach. The APT assumes that a
linear relationship between the realized returns and the K risk factors exists:
Ri ¼ EðRiÞ þ
X
K
k¼1
ðbi;k  FkÞ þ ei
ð6:1Þ
where Ri is the realized return on asset i; E(Ri) is the expected return on
asset i; bi,k is the sensitivity of asset i towards risk factor k (factor loading);
Fk is the magnitude of the k-th risk factor with E(Fk) ¼ 0; and ei is the
residual (i.e. idiosyncratic) return on asset i with E(ei) ¼ 0.
Taking into account arbitrage considerations the following relationship
results:
EðRiÞ  RF ¼
X
K
k¼1
ðbi;k  kkÞ
ð6:2Þ
where kk can be seen as the risk premium of the k-th risk factor in equi-
librium and RF is the deterministic return on the risk-free asset. Equation
(6.2) can be transformed to
EðRiÞ  RF ¼
X
K
k¼1
bi;k  ðdk  RFÞ


ð6:3Þ
where dk is the return on a portfolio with a sensitivity of one towards the
k-th risk factor and a sensitivity of zero against the other risk factors. The
beta factor bi,k can be estimated by
bi;k ¼ covðRi; dkÞ
varðdkÞ
ð6:4Þ
where cov(Ri, dk) is the covariance between Ri and dk.
As mentioned above, an advantage of the APT model versus the CAPM is
that it offers the possibility to incorporate different risk factors to explain
the investment return. The return on the market portfolio (in practice: an
adequate benchmark portfolio) has no special role any more – it is just one
risk factor among many (examples for APT-based performance measures
can be found in Connor and Korajczyk 1986 and Lehmann and Modest
1987).
225
Performance attribution

--- Página 254 ---
2.2 Parameterizing the model: choice of risk factors
After having deﬁned the structure of the multi-factor model, one should
determine its parameters (i.e. the portfolio-relevant risk factors). Multi-
factor model theory does not specify the number or nature of the risk
factors – the use of these models therefore requires a prior phase for seeking
and identifying factors. Many studies have been carried out on this subject –
they give guidance on the choices, but the combinations of factors that
allow the returns on a group of assets to be explained are not necessarily
unique. Generally, there are two main techniques to identify risk factors: the
exogenous (or explicit) method and the endogenous (or implicit) method.
Both categories are potential candidates for central banks in order to set up
or choose a ﬁxed-income risk factor model for the purpose of performance
attribution analysis. Before being able to successfully opt for a speciﬁc
multi-factor attribution model it is crucial to know the elementary mech-
anisms of those techniques. Two representative members of the explicit
method, macroeconomic and fundamental models, as well as the principal
components analysis as a representative of the implicit method are sketched
in the following paragraphs.
In macroeconomic models, the risk factors which are considered to
impact on the asset returns are all observable macroeconomic variables. The
model speciﬁcation procedure for a given market for a speciﬁc time period
can be executed in two regression steps. The ﬁrst step uses the APT equation
(6.1) to determine the factor loadings (i.e. the factor-speciﬁc sensitivities)
bi,k for every asset i, and the second step estimates the risk premia kk for
every risk factor k using the regression equation as below:
EðRiÞ ¼ k0 þ
X
K
k¼1
ðbi;k  kkÞ
ð6:5Þ
where k0 ¼ RF is the deterministic return on the risk-free asset. In the end of
the model speciﬁcation process the following relationship, that uses the
estimation results of (6.5), for a given period exists:
Ri ¼ k0 þ
X
K
k¼1
ðbi;k  kkÞ þ
X
K
k¼1
ðbi;k  FkÞ þ ei
ð6:6Þ
Here, all the required parameters are known: the number of risk factors K,
the factor loadings bi,k and the risk premia kk.
226
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 255 ---
Alternatively, when using fundamental factor models the factor loadings
are deﬁned explicitly and the extents of the risk factors are estimated via
regression analysis. The term ‘fundamental’ in this context stems from the
fact that these models have originally been developed for the analysis of
equity returns.
Differently, the second major category to identify the relevant risk factors
a portfolio is exposed to – the ‘implicit method’ – makes use of a statistical
technique called factor analysis. It comprises the set of statistical methods
which can be applied to summarize the information of a group of variables
with a reduced number of variables by minimizing the loss of information
due to the simpliﬁcation. When designing risk factor models this technique
can be used to identify the factors required by the model (i.e. it can be used
to determine the explaining risk factors and the corresponding factor
loadings), but it does not give any information about the nature of the risk
factors – these have to be interpreted individually and be given an economic
meaning. Two variations of factor analysis prevail in practice: the maximum
likelihood method and principal components analysis (PCA). In particular,
PCA has been found to work well on yield curve changes, since in practice
all yield curve changes can be closely approximated using linear combin-
ations of the ﬁrst three eigenvectors from a PCA.
2.3 Fitting to practice: empirical multi-factor models
Empirical models have less restrictive assumptions than APT-related
approaches and do not use arbitrage theory. They do not assume that there
is a causal relationship between the asset returns and risk factors in every
period. But they postulate that the average investment returns (or risk
premia) can be directly decomposed with the help of the risk factors. So in
contrast to the APT only one regression step is required. For every asset i the
following model relationship is given:
EðRiÞ  RF ¼
X
K
k¼1
ðbi;k  FkÞ þ ei
ð6:7Þ
Speciﬁcally, passively oriented managers like central banks can use multi-risk
factor models to help keep the portfolio closely aligned with the benchmark
along all risk dimensions. This information is then incorporated into the
performance review process, where the returns achieved by a particular
strategy are weighed against the risk taken. The procedure of modelling asset
227
Performance attribution

--- Página 256 ---
returns as applied within the framework of empirical models is found in
many modern performance attribution systems dealing with multi-factor
models – especially in the ﬁeld of ﬁxed-income attribution analysis.
To underline the importance of multi-factor models for risk manage-
ment, in addition to performance attribution they can act as the building
blocks at other stages of the investment management process, such as risk
budgeting and portfolio and/or benchmark optimization (see e.g. Dynkin
and Hyman 2002; 2004; 2006). A multivariate risk model could also be
thought of being applied to the ideological ‘sister’ of performance attri-
bution: risk attribution. Using exactly the same choice of risk factors it is
possible to quantify the portions of the absolute risk (e.g. volatility or VaR)
and the relative risk (e.g. tracking error or relative VaR) of a portfolio that
each risk factor and sector would contribute (in an ex ante sense) and
consequently risk concentrations could be easily identiﬁed (for the attribu-
tion of the forward-looking variance and tracking error, respectively, see e.g.
Mina 2002; Krishnamurthi 2004; Gre´goire 2006). Pairing both the absolute
and relative risk contributions with the absolute and relative (active) return
contributions, enables the implementation of a risk-adjusted performance
attribution (see among others Kophamel 2003 and Obeid 2004).
Theoretically, a multivariate ﬁxed-income risk factor model that was
chosen to be adequate for the portfolio management process of a public
investor like a central bank (in terms of the selection of the risk factors)
could serve as the main investment control and evaluation module. Of
course, for a central bank this theoretical possibility would not necessarily
ﬁnd practical application, because the strategies are (among other factors)
subject to policy constraints. But even then, risk factor models can con-
tribute signiﬁcantly to the investment management process in central banks,
by providing the ‘quantitative control centre’ of that process.
3. Fixed-income portfolios: risk factor derivation
In order to effectively employ ﬁxed-income portfolio strategies that can
control interest rate risk and enhance returns, the portfolio managers must
understand the forces that drive bond markets. Focusing on central banks
this means that, to be able to effectively manage and analyse the foreign
currency reserves portfolios, it is of crucial importance that the portfolio
managers and analysts (i.e. front ofﬁce and risk management) are familiar
with the speciﬁc risk factors to which the central bank portfolios are
228
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 257 ---
exposed and that they understand how these factors inﬂuence the asset
returns of these portfolios.
The model price (i.e. the present value) of an interest rate-sensitive
instrument i, e.g. a bond, at time t, with deterministic cash ﬂows (i.e.
without embedded options or prepayment facilities), is dependent on its
yield to maturity yi,t and on the analysis time t and is deﬁned in discrete
time Pi,t,disc and continuous time Pi,t,cont, respectively, as follows:
Pi;t;disc ¼
X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t
ð1 þ yi;t;discÞTt
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
discrete time

X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t  eðTtÞyi;t;cont ¼ Pi;t;cont
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
continuous time
ð6:8Þ
where for asset i: CFi,T–t,t is the future cash ﬂow at time t with time to
payment T–t; yi,t,disc is the discrete-time version of the yield to maturity,
whereas yi,t,cont is its continuously compounded equivalent.
The determinants of the local-currency buy-and-hold return dP(t,y)/P
(i.e. without the impact of exchange rate appreciations or depreciations and
trading activities) of an interest rate-dependent instrument (and hence also
portfolio) without uncertain future cash ﬂows are analytically derived by
total differentiation of the price as a function of the parameters time t and
yield to maturity y, and by normalizing by the price level P (for the der-
ivation see e.g. Kang and Chen 2002, 42). Restricted to the differential terms
up to the second order, the analysis delivers:4
dPðt; yÞ
P
 1
P
@P
@t  dt þ 1
P
@P
@y  dy þ 1
2
1
P
@2P
@t2  ðdtÞ2

þ 1
P
@2P
@t@y  dtdy þ 1
P
@2P
@y2  ðdyÞ2 þ 1
P
@2P
@y@t  dydt

ð6:9Þ
This means that the return on a ﬁxed-income instrument is sensitive to the
linear change in time dt, the linear change of its yield dy, the quadratic
change in time (dt)2, the quadratic change of its yield (dy)2 and also cross-
products between the change in time and yield dtdy and dydt, respectively,
where higher order dependencies are ignored.
The most comprehensive way to determine the return contributions
induced by every risk factor is by so-called ‘pricing from ﬁrst principles’.
This means that the model price of the instrument is determined via the
present value formula immediately after every ceteris paribus change of the
4 For the differential analysis the subscripts of the parameters were omitted.
229
Performance attribution

--- Página 258 ---
considered risk factors. By applying total return formulae with respect to the
initial price of the instrument, the factor-speciﬁc contributions to the
instrument return can then be quantiﬁed. The main difﬁculties in terms of
practical application are the data requirements of the approach: ﬁrst, all
instrument pricing algorithms must be available for the analysis, second, the
whole analysis must be processed in an option-adjusted spread (OAS)
framework to be able to separately measure the impacts of the diverse risk
factors (see Burns and Chu 2005 for using an OAS framework for per-
formance attribution analysis) and third (in connection with the second
point), a spot rate model would need to be implemented (e.g. following
Svensson 1994) to be able to accurately derive the spot rates required for the
factor-speciﬁc pricing.
Alternatively, return decomposition processing could be done by using an
approximate solution.5 This is the more pragmatic way, because it is rela-
tively easy and quick to implement. Here it is assumed that the price level-
normalized partial derivatives 1
P
@2P
@t2  ðdtÞ2, 1
P
@2P
@t@y  dtdy and 1
P
@2P
@y@t  dydt as of
formula (6.9) are equivalent to zero and hence could be neglected for the
purpose of performance attribution analysis. Therefore the following
intuitive relationship between the instrument return and its driving risk
factors remains:
dPðt; yÞ
P

1
P
@P
@t  dt
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
time decay effect
þ 1
P
@P
@y  dy þ 1
2P
@2P
@y2  ðdyÞ2
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
yield change effect
ð6:10Þ
The identiﬁed return determinants due to the passage of time and caused by
the change of the yield to maturity are separately examined in the subse-
quent sections, whereof the yield change effect is further decomposed into
its inﬂuencing components; additionally, the accurate sensitivities against
the several risk factors are quantiﬁed.
3.1 Risk factor: passage of time
The ﬁrst risk factor impact described by expression (6.10) represents the
return contribution solely due to the decay of time dt, i.e. shorter times to
5 Although approximate (also called perturbational) pricing is not as comprehensive as pricing from first principles, it
should not represent a serious problem, in view of other assumptions that are made when quantifying yield curve
movements. An advantage of this method is that the computations of the return and performance effects can be
processed very fast without the need of any detailed security pricing formulae.
230
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 259 ---
cash ﬂow maturities and therefore changing discount factors. It is to be
taken into consideration that the yield change in period dt does not have
any impact on the carry effect and therefore unchanged yield curves are
postulated as a prerequisite for its calculation. The precise carry return
Ri,carry (also sometimes called time return or calendar return) can at
instrument level be determined as follows:
Ri;carry ¼ Pi;tþdt  Pi;t
Pi;t
ð6:11Þ
whereof
Pi;t ¼
X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t
ð1 þ yi;tÞTt
ð6:12Þ
and
Pi;tþdt ¼
X
8Ttdt
CFi;Ttdt;tþdt
ð1 þ yi;tÞTtdt
ð6:13Þ
where for instrument i: Pi,tþdt is the model price at time tþdt; CFi,T–t–dt,tþdt
is a future cash ﬂow with time to maturity T–t–dt at time tþdt; yi,t is the
discrete-time yield to maturity as of basis date t.
In an approximate (perturbational) model (which could methodically
also directly be applied to any sector level or to the total portfolio level) the
carry return on asset i is given by6
Ri;carry ¼ yi;t  dt
ð6:14Þ
The approximate method does not enable one to disentangle the ordinary
income return (i.e. the return impact stemming from accrued interest and
coupon payments) from the roll-down return which combined would yield
the overall return attributable to the passage of time. This precise decom-
position of the carry return would be feasible by pricing via the ﬁrst
principles method and applying total return formulae.7
6 See e.g. Christensen and Sorensen 1994; Chance and Jordan 1996; Cubilie´ 2005, appendix C.
7 Ideally, an intelligent combination of the imprecise approximate solution and the resources- and time-consuming
approach via first principles should be found and implemented in particular for the derivation of the carry effect. The
ECB performance attribution methodology was designed in a way to overcome the disadvantages of both methods
(see Section 5).
231
Performance attribution

--- Página 260 ---
To analytically derive the approximation representation of the price change
as a function of one single source, the widely used Taylor series expansion
technique is usually applied which delivers polynomial terms in ascending
order of power and so in descending explanatory order. The absolute price
change of an interest rate-sensitive instrument using the second-order Taylor
expansion rule with respect to time decay dt is approximated by (for the
Taylor series rule see among others Martellini et al. 2004, chapter 5; Fabozzi
et al. 2006, chapter 11)8
dPðtÞ ¼ P00ðtÞdt þ 1
2  P00ðtÞðdtÞ2 þ oððdtÞ2Þ
ð6:15Þ
where dP(t) is the price change solely caused by the change in time t; P’(t)
and P’(t) are the ﬁrst and second derivatives of P with respect to the change
in time dt; and o((dt)2) is a term negligible compared to second order
terms.
For the relative price change formula (6.15) becomes
dPðtÞ
P
¼ P0ðtÞ
P
dt þ 1
2  P00
P ðtÞðdtÞ2 þ oððdtÞ2Þ
ð6:16Þ
3.2 Risk factor: change of yield to maturity
To complement, the second return determinant of equation (6.10), the
change of the yield to maturity, is analyzed. Also for reasons of consistency
the Taylor expansion concept is used here – with the aim at deriving the
polynomials which are the explaining parameters of the price change due to
the yield change. The absolute price movement with respect to a yield
change is given by
dPðyÞ ¼ P0ðyÞdy þ 1
2  P00ðyÞðdyÞ2 þ oððdyÞ2Þ
ð6:17Þ
where the analogous notation as for equation (6.15) is valid.
The relative price change is then approximated by
dPðyÞ
P
¼ P0ðyÞ
P
dy þ 1
2  P00
P ðyÞðdyÞ2 þ oððdyÞ2Þ
ð6:18Þ
8 For the Taylor expansion analysis the subscripts of the parameters were dropped.
232
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 261 ---
Plugging in the well-known interest rate sensitivity measures modiﬁed
duration ModDur and convexity Conv, the yield change effect is decom-
posed into the components linear yield change effect and quadratic yield
change effect (i.e. convexity effect). The relative price change representation
is now given by
dPðyÞ
P
 ModDur  dy
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
linear yield
change effect
þ 1
2  Conv  ðdyÞ2
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
convexity effect
ð6:19Þ
The variation of the yield to maturity of an interest rate-sensitive instru-
ment is mainly caused by the movement of the underlying basis yield
curve, which is usually the country-speciﬁc government yield curve.9
In case of pure government issues, the yield change is almost entirely
explained by the basis curve motions.10 But for credit risk-bearing
instruments (e.g. agency bonds or BIS instruments) there is also a residual
yield change implied by the change of the spread between the security’s
yield to maturity and the government spot curve. For practical reasons just
the linear yield change effect is broken down into the parts related to the
government yield and the spread. In principle, the quadratic term could
also be divided into these components, but as the convexity contribution
itself in a typical central bank portfolio environment is of minor dimen-
sion, the decomposition would not have any signiﬁcant value added for the
desired attribution analysis. The relationship in formula (6.19) can be then
extended to11
dPðyÞ
P
 ModDur  dr
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
government yield
change effect
ModDur  ds
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
spread change effect
þ 1
2  Conv  ðdyÞ2
ð6:20Þ
9 In a portfolio context, it is more precise to speak of the ‘portfolio base currency-specific basis yield curve’ instead of
the ‘country-specific basis yield curve’, because single-currency portfolios could also contain assets issued in different
countries, e.g. euro portfolios.
10 In practice it will not be described at 100 per cent, because the government instrument in question might not be a
member of the universe generating the basis yield curve; and even if the issue were part of it, eventual different
pricing sources would imply different yield changes.
11 Note that if instruments with embedded options (e.g. callable bonds) or prepayment facilities (e.g. asset-backed
securities) are held within the portfolio (which can be part of the eligible instruments of central banks), the modified
duration would have to be replaced by the option-adjusted duration (also called effective duration) to accurately
quantify interest rate sensitivity; it is determined within an option-adjusted spread (OAS) framework.
233
Performance attribution

--- Página 262 ---
where dr is the change of the designated basis government spot curve; ds is
the narrowing or widening of the spread between the yield to maturity of an
instrument and the government spot curve.
3.3 Risk factor: movement of basis government yield curve
In discrete time, for the model price (present value) Pi,t of a credit risk-free
interest rate-sensitive instrument i (e.g. a government bond) at time t the
following functional equivalence must be true:
Pi;t ¼ f ðt; yi;tÞ ¼
X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t
ð1 þ yi;tÞTt
 f ðt; rTt;tÞ ¼
X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t
ð1 þ rTt;tÞTt
ð6:21Þ
where rTt,t is the spot rate valid for time to maturity T – t of a government
zero-coupon curve as of valuation time t. So the present value of the credit
risk-free instrument must be the same when discounting the future cash
ﬂows with a constant yield to maturity as when discounting each future cash
ﬂow with its maturity-congruent zero spot rate. It should be noted, how-
ever, that spot rates are not observable in the capital market and hence must
be estimated by an appropriate model.
To be able to quantify the risk factor of the change of the basis
government yield curve, various methods were developed to model the
dynamics of term structures and to derive the resulting factor-speciﬁc
sensitivities. In term structure models (i.e. interest rate models) the model
factors are speciﬁcally deﬁned to help explain the returns of credit risk-free
bonds by variations of the moments of the term structure. As the factors
explain the risk of interest rate changes, it is crucial that in every model a
characteristic yield-curve movement is associated with every factor. Term
structure models could be divided into four categories: equilibrium and no
arbitrage models, principal components models, spot rate models and
functional models.
Equilibrium and no-arbitrage models are generally based on the ﬁndings
in option valuation as established by Black and Scholes (1973) and Merton
(1973), respectively. But they widely evolved independently from the lit-
erature on option pricing, because speciﬁc peculiarities had to be taken into
account for the interest rate-sensitive domain. Discussing these models in
234
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 263 ---
detail would be out of scope of this chapter, so just a few representatives
should be stated: equilibrium concepts – Vasicek (1977), Brennan and
Schwartz (1979; 1982) and Cox et al. (1985); no-arbitrage models – Ho and
Lee (1986), Black et al. (1990) and Hull and White (1990; 1993).
Also we do not deal with the principal components models in detail. One
shortcoming of this group of models is the huge number of required par-
ameters: e.g. for three principal components and twelve times to maturity
thirty-six parameters are needed. These are the parameters which describe
the characteristic yield-curve movements for each of the three risk factors at
each of the twelve maturities. To mention a few, term structure models
based on principal components analysis can be found in Litterman and
Scheinkman (1991), Bliss (1997) and Esseghaier et al. (2004).
Spot rate models deﬁne the risk factors to be the changes of yields of
hypothetical zero-coupon bonds for speciﬁc times to maturity, i.e. the
changes of pre-deﬁned spot rates. The number of the spot rates is a variable
within the modelling process – so the portfolio analyst has a huge degree of
freedom to specify the model the way that corresponds best with the
individual investment management attributes (as a popular reference, a spot
rate model is incorporated into the RiskMetrics methodology – see Risk-
Metrics Group 2006). The sensitivities to the changes of the deﬁned spot
rates are known as ‘key rate durations’ (see Reitano 1991; Ho 1992); instead
of assuming a price sensitivity against the parallel change of the yield curve
(as the modiﬁed duration does), key rate durations treat the price P as a
function of N chosen spot rates – designated as the key rates r1, . . . ,rN:
P ¼ Pðr1; :::; rNÞ
ð6:22Þ
Key rate durations KRDi are partial durations which measure the sensitivity
of price changes of ﬁrst order to the isolated changes of i various segments
on the government spot curve:
KRDi ¼  1
P
dP
dri
8i 2 1; N
½

ð6:23Þ
Therefore every yield-curve movement can be represented as a vector of
changes of deﬁned key rates (dr1, . . . ,drN). The relative price change is
approximated by
dP
P  
X
N
i¼1
ðKRDi  driÞ
ð6:24Þ
235
Performance attribution

--- Página 264 ---
In practice, key rate durations are numerically calculated as follows:
KRDi ¼  1
P
Pi;up  Pi;down
2dri
ð6:25Þ
where Pi,up and Pi,down are the calculated model prices after shocking up and
down the diverse key rates. The key rate convexity KRCi,j for the simul-
taneous variation of the i-th and j-th key rate is given by (see Ho et al.
1996)
KRCi;j ¼ 1
P
d2P
dri  drj
 8i; j
ð6:26Þ
Formula (6.24) must therefore be extended to
dP
P  
X
N
i¼1
ðKRDi  driÞ þ 1
2
X
i;j
ðKRCi;j  dri  drjÞ
ð6:27Þ
Summing up the key rate shocks should accumulate to a parallel curve
shock – this intuitively means that the exposure to a parallel change of the
yield curve comprises the exposures to various units of the curve. It is not
guaranteed that the sum of the key rate durations is equal to the modiﬁed
duration; but for instruments without cash ﬂow uncertainties, which are the
usual case in risk-averse portfolios of public investors like central banks, the
difference is naturally small. For more complex products this difference can
be substantially bigger due to the non-linear cash ﬂow structure.
A disadvantage of spot rate modelling approaches is that the character-
istic yield-curve shifts are not deﬁned to be continuous. This means that
certain interpolations of the interest rate changes are necessary to enable
applying the model to zero-coupon bonds with maturities that do not
correspond to the model-deﬁned maturities – the bigger the number of risk
factors the more precise the model will be. A representative central bank
which successfully implemented a performance attribution framework based
on the key rate concept is the European Central Bank. The ECB model
consists of eighteen speciﬁed key rate maturities up to thirty years – this
large number along with a sophisticated cash ﬂow mapping algorithm
reduces to a minimum any inaccuracies due to interpolations. The meth-
odology of the ECB is brieﬂy described in Section 5 of this chapter.
Functional models assume that the changes of interest rates, in particular
the government spot rates, are deﬁned continuously. They belong to the
236
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 265 ---
class of parsimonious models – this is due to the fact that these techniques
model the spot curve just by its ﬁrst (mostly) three principal (i.e. orthog-
onal) components which together explain most of the variance of the his-
torical values of government yield curves.12 The risk factors are represented
by the variations of the principal components during the analysis period:
parallel shift (level change), twist (slope change) and butterﬂy (curvature
change). Functional models can be divided into the following two categories:
polynomial models and exponential models.
In polynomial models the government spot rate rT–t,t for time to maturity
T – t as of time t is described by polynomials in ascending order of power,
where the general form is given by
rTt;t ¼ nt þ wt  ðT  tÞ þ ft  ðT  tÞ2 þ · · ·
ð6:28Þ
where nt, wt und ft are time-variable coefﬁcients associated with the yield-
curve components level, slope and curvature.
The parallel shift PSdt in period dt is
PSdt ¼ atþdt  at
ð6:29Þ
where at stands for the average level of the spot curve at time t.
The twist TWdt in period dt is
TWdt ¼ ðbtþdt  btÞ þ ðctþdt  ctÞ  ðT  tÞ
ð6:30Þ
where bt þ ct · (T – t) represents the best linear approximation of the curve
at time t.
The butterﬂy BFdt in period dt is
BFdt ¼ ðdtþdt  dtÞþðetþdt  etÞ  ðT  tÞþðftþdt  ftÞ  ðT  tÞ2
ð6:31Þ
where dt þ et · (T – t) þ ft · (T – t)2 describes the best quadratic approxi-
mation of the curve at time t.
Exponential models on the other hand do not use polynomials but
exponentials to reconstruct the yield curve. As a beneﬁt the yield curves can
be captured more accurately and so the resulting residual is smaller. The
approach by Nelson and Siegel (1987), used also in other chapters of this
12 As an example, for the US Treasury yield curve and the German government yield curve the explained original
variance by the first three principal components is about 95 per cent (first component: 75 per cent, second
component: 15 per cent and third component: 5 per cent).
237
Performance attribution

--- Página 266 ---
book, is an exponential model which speciﬁes a functional form of the spot
curve. The original motivation for this way of modelling was to cover the
entire range of observable shapes of the yield curves: a monotonous form,
humps on different positions of the curve and S-formations. The Nelson–
Siegel model has four parameters which are to be estimated: b0, b1, b2 and
s1. These coefﬁcients identify three unique attributes: an asymptotic value,
the general shape of the curve and a humped or U-shape which combined
generate the Nelson–Siegel spot curve for a speciﬁc date.13
The spot rate rT–t,t is determined by
rTt;t ¼b0;t þ b1;t  1  eðTtÞ=s1;t
ðT  tÞ=s1;t


þ
þ b2;t  1  eðTtÞ=s1;t
ðT  tÞ=s1;t
 eðTtÞ=s1;t


ð6:32Þ
The optimal parameter values are those for which the resulting model prices
of the government securities (i.e. government bonds and eventually also
bills) match best the observed market prices at the same point of time.14
Regarding the model by Nelson and Siegel, the parameters b0,t, b1,t, b2,t can
be interpreted as time-variable level, slope and curvature factors. Therefore
the variation of the model curve can be divided into the three principal
components parallel shift, twist and butterﬂy – every movement corres-
ponds to the respective parameter b0,t, b1,t or b2,t. The parallel shift PSdt in
period dt is given by
PSdt ¼ b0;tþdt  b0;t
ð6:33Þ
The twist TWdt in period dt is covered by
TWdt ¼ b1;tþdt  1  eðTtÞ=s1;tþdt
ðT  tÞ=s1;tþdt


tþdt
b1;t  1  eðTtÞ=s1;t
ðT  tÞ=s1;t


t
ð6:34Þ
13 An extension to the Nelson and Siegel (1987) method is the model by Svensson (1994). The difference between both
approaches is the functional form of the spot curve – the Svensson technique deﬁnes a second exponential
expression which speciﬁes a further hump on the curve.
14 Actually there are two ways to define the objective function of the optimization problem: either by minimizing the
price errors or by minimizing the yield errors. As government bond prices are traded in the market it makes sense to
specify a loss function in terms of this variable which is directly observed in the market.
238
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 267 ---
The butterﬂy BFdt in period dt is modelled by
BFdt ¼ b2;tþdt  1  eðTtÞ=s1;tþdt
ðT  tÞ=s1;tþdt
 eðTtÞ=s1;tþdt


tþdt
 b2;t  1  eðTtÞ=s1;t
ðT  tÞ=s1;t
 eðTtÞ=s1;t


t
ð6:35Þ
Complementing the described partial motions of the yield curve, also the
sensitivities towards them can be derived from an exponential model (see
e.g. Willner 1996). Following the approach proposed by Kuberek,15 which is
a modiﬁcation of the Nelson-Siegel technique, the price of a government
security i in continuous time can be represented in the following functional
form:
Pi;t ¼ f ðt; r; b0; b1; b2; s1Þ
¼
X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t  eðTtÞ rTt;tþb0;tþb1;teðTtÞ=s1;t þb2;tðt=s1;tÞe1ðTtÞ=s1;t
ð
Þ
h
i
ð6:36Þ
The model-inherent factor durations of every instrument (and hence also
portfolio) can then be quantiﬁed analytically. The sensitivity to a parallel
shift Duri,PS,t is determined by
Duri;PS;t ¼ 1
Pi;t
@Pi;t
@b0;t
¼  1
Pi;t
X
8Tt
ðT  tÞ  CFi;Tt;t  eðTtÞrTt;t
h
i
ð6:37Þ
The sensitivity to a twist Duri,TW,t is calculated by
Duri;TW;t ¼ 1
Pi;t
@Pi;t
@b1;t
¼  1
Pi;t
X
8Tt
ðT  tÞ  eðTtÞ=s1;t  CFi;Tt;t  eðTtÞrTt;t
h
i
ð6:38Þ
The sensitivity to a butterﬂy Duri,BF,t is given by
Duri;BF;t ¼ 1
Pi;t
@Pi;t
@b2;t
¼  1
Pi;t
X
8Tt
ðT  tÞ  ðT  tÞ=s1;t


 e1ðTtÞ=s1;t  CFi;Tt;t  eðTtÞrTt;t
h
i
ð6:39Þ
15 Kuberek, R. C. 1990, ‘Common factors in bond portfolio returns’, Wilshire Associates Inc. Internal Memo.
239
Performance attribution

--- Página 268 ---
One major advantage of exponential functional models is the fact that they
only require very few parameters (times to payment of the cash ﬂows and
the model beta factors) to be able to determine the corresponding spot rates.
Many central banks use exponential functions to construct the government
spot curve either by using the model by Nelson and Siegel (1987) or by
Svensson (1994) – for an overview see the study developed by the BIS (2005).
For the purpose of ﬁxed-income performance attribution analysis,
exponential techniques are used most frequently when applying functional
models, because they produce better approximations of the yield curve
compared to the polynomial alternatives with comparable degree of
complexity. Thus, for example, polynomial modelling using a three-term
polynomial would only produce a quadratic approximation of the yield
curve, and this would lead to distorted results (mainly for short and long
maturities). As a reference, elaborations on the polynomial decomposition
of the yield curve can be found in Colin (2005, chapter 6) and Esseghaier
et al. (2004).
3.4 Risk factor: narrowing/widening of sector and euro country spreads
Alongside the movement of the government yield curve, the change of an
instrument’s yield to maturity is affected by the variation of the spread
against the basis government yield curve – see formula (6.20).16 When
analysing at portfolio level, at least two fundamental types of spreads can be
distinguished: sector and euro country spreads. Speciﬁcally in the case of
evaluating central bank portfolios it is advisable to separate these categories
and not to subsume them under the same expression, e.g. ‘credit spread’,
because the intentions behind the different types of spread positions can
vary. In euro portfolios, the German government yield curve could be
chosen as the reference yield curve; the differences between the non-German
government yield curves and the German government yield curve would
be designated as euro country spreads. In central banks the euro country
spread exposures (versus the benchmark) might not be taken as part of
portfolio management decisions, e.g. by decisions of an investment com-
mittee, and hence would not be treated as credit spread positions. On the
contrary, investments in non-government issues, like US agency bonds or
instruments issued by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), which
16 Technically spoken, the spread could be interpreted as an option-adjusted spread (OAS), i.e. a constant spread to the
term structure based on an OAS model.
240
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 269 ---
imply sector spread positioning (against the benchmark), are mostly due to
concrete strategic investment policy directives or tactical asset allocation
decisions.
To precisely quantify the sensitivity to a sector or euro country spread
change, the spread duration and not the modiﬁed duration should be used
as a measure. It speciﬁes the amount by which the price of a risky (in terms
of deviating from the basis yield curve) interest rate-sensitive instrument
i changes in per cent due to a ceteris paribus parallel shift dsi,t of 100 basis
points of its spread. The numerical computation of the spread duration
Duri,spr,t is similar to the calculation of the option-adjusted duration – with
the difference that it is the spread that is shifted instead of the spot rate:
Duri;spr;t ¼  1
Pi;t
Pi;SpreadUp;t  Pi;SpreadDown;t
2  dsi;t
ð6:40Þ
where Pi,SpreadUp,t and Pi,SpreadDown,t are the present values which result after
the upward and downward shocks of the spread, respectively. Consequently,
equation (6.21) for the calculation of the price (present value) of an
interest-sensitive instrument must be extended with respect to the inﬂuence
of the spread:
Pi;t ¼ f ðt; rTt;t; si;tÞ ¼
X
8Tt
CFi;Tt;t
ð1 þ rTt;t þ si;tÞTt
ð6:41Þ
where at time t: rTt,t is the government spot rate associated with the time to
cash ﬂow payment T – t; si,t is the spread calculated for instrument i against
the government spot curve.
The total spread of an instrument’s yield versus the portfolio base cur-
rency-speciﬁc basis yield curve is normally to a great extent described by its
components sector and country spread – the residual term can be inter-
preted as the issue- or issuer-speciﬁc spread (whose change effects are
mostly explicitly or implicitly attributed to the category ‘selection effect’
within a performance attribution model).
4. Performance attribution models
In the previous section of this chapter the basis elements required to set up a
performance attribution model were derived: the general structure of a
multi-factor model and the return-driving risk factors for ﬁxed-income
241
Performance attribution

--- Página 270 ---
portfolios typically managed in central banks. We now provide a method to
attribute the value added arising from the active investment decisions in a
way, so that the senior management, the portfolio management (front
ofﬁce) and the risk management (middle ofﬁce) are aware of the sources of
this active return, which should consequently improve the transparency of
the investment management process. A suitable model must fulﬁl speciﬁc
requirements:
1. The appropriate performance attribution model which is to be chosen
must be in accordance with the active investment decision processes,
primarily with respect to the factor-speciﬁc relative positioning versus
the benchmark. This is most probably the crucial point when carrying
out the model speciﬁcation or veriﬁcation. It is common knowledge that
the local-currency buy-and-hold return (i.e. without the impact of
trading activities) of an interest rate-sensitive instrument is mainly
driven by the impacts of the decay of time and the change of its yield. But
how to best disentangle those factors to be in conformity with the
investment strategies and to be able to measure the distinct success of
each of them in excess to the benchmark return?
2. The variable which is aimed at being explained as accurately as possible by
the model components is the active return (i.e. the out- or underperform-
ance) versus the benchmark based on the concept of the TWRR17 – so the
incorporation of solely market risk factors of course does not sufﬁciently
cover the range of the performance determinants. As parts of the TWRR
are caused by holding instruments in the portfolio that perform better
or worse than the average market changes (based on the incorporated
yield curves) would induce, also an instrument selection effect must be
part of the analysis. Additionally, dealing with better or worse transaction
prices than quoted on the market at portfolio valuation time has an
impact on the TWRR and therefore the trading skills of the portfolio
managers themselves also act as an explanatory variable of the attribution
model.
3. The performance attribution reports are to be tailored for the objective
classes of recipients, i.e. senior management, portfolio management, risk
management, etc. The classes determine the level of detail reported; for
example, whether reporting at individual security level is necessary or
desired. The design of the model is dependent on the needs of the
clients – the resulting decision is of signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the model
17 See Chapter 5 for the determination of the time-weighted rate of return.
242
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 271 ---
building: deﬁning and implementing an attribution model just for the
total portfolio level is usually easier than following a bottom-up approach
from security level upwards.
4. As described in the subsequent sections there are different ways to
process attribution analysis within a single period and multiple periods.
But which technique is the most suitable in the individual case? The
model must in any case guarantee mathematical precision without
causing technically (i.e. methodically) induced residuals. Central banks
are rather passive investors versus the benchmarks and so naturally the
active return which is to be explained by the attribution model is rather
small. Using an imprecise model could therefore easily lead to a
dominance of the residual effect which is of course a result to be avoided.
Additionally, the results of the attribution analysis must be intuitive to
the recipients of the reports – no ‘exotic’ (i.e. non-standard) calculation
concepts are to be used.
Basically, two ways of breaking down the active return into its determining
contributions are prevalent: arithmetically and geometrically – in the
ﬁrst case the decomposition is processed additively and in the second case
it is done multiplicatively. In each of these cases the model must be
able to quantify the performance contributions for single-currency and
multi-currency portfolios (for the latter the currency effects must be sup-
plemented). A further considerable component is the time factor as the
single-period attribution effects must be correctly linked over time. As a
reference, a good overview of the different types of attribution models is
given by Bacon (2004).
In principle, the formal conversion of return decomposition models into
performance attribution models is done as follows. The decomposition
model for the return RP of portfolio P is deﬁned by (for the notation see the
previous Section 2 on multi-factor return decomposition models)
RP ¼
X
K
k¼1
ðbP;k  FkÞ þ eP
ð6:42Þ
The representation of the performance attribution model, which explains
the active portfolio return ARP, (assuming an additive model) is given by
ARP ¼ RP  RB ¼
X
K
k¼1
ðbP;k  bB;kÞ  Fk


þ eP
ð6:43Þ
243
Performance attribution

--- Página 272 ---
where bP,k is the sensitivity of portfolio P versus the k-th risk factor, bB,k is
the sensitivity of benchmark B versus the k-th risk factor and Fk is the
magnitude of the k-th risk factor.
At this point the fundamental differences between empirical return
decomposition models (as described in Section 2.3) and performance attri-
bution models should be emphasized: in equation (6.42) the buy-and-hold
return is the dependent variable and so the risk factors are solely market risk
factors as well as a residual or idiosyncratic component representing the
instrument selection return, whereas in equation (6.43) the dependent
variable is the performance determined via the method of the time-weighted
rate of return and so the market risk factors and the security selection effect
are extended by a determinant which represents the intraday trading
contribution.
Performance attribution models can be applied to various levels within
the portfolio and the benchmark, beginning from security level, across
all possible sector levels, up to total portfolio level. The transition of a
sector-level model to a portfolio model (i.e. the conversion of sector-level
performance contributions into portfolio-level performance contributions)
is done by market value-weighting the determinants of the active return
ARP:
ARP ¼ RP  RB ¼
X
N
i¼1
X
K
k¼1
ðbP;i;k  wP;i  bB;i;k  wB;iÞ  Fk


þ ei
ð6:44Þ
where wP,i and wB,i are the market value weights of the i-th sector within
portfolio P and benchmark B, respectively; bP,i,k and bB,i,k are the sensitiv-
ities of the i-th sector of portfolio P and benchmark B, respectively, versus
the k-th risk factor.
The ﬂexible structure of the model allows the inﬂuences on aggregate
(e.g. total portfolio) performance to be reported along the dimensions of
risk factor categories and also sector classes. The contribution PCk related to
the k-th factor across all N sectors within the portfolio and benchmark to
the active return is determined by
PCk ¼
X
N
i¼1
ðbP;i;k  wP;i  bB;i;k  wB;iÞ  Fk
ð6:45Þ
The contribution PCi related to the i-th sector across all K risk factors of the
attribution model to the performance is then given by
244
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 273 ---
PCi ¼
X
K
k¼1
ðbP;i;k  wP;i  bB;i;k  wB;iÞ  Fk
ð6:46Þ
4.1 Fundamental types of performance attribution models
In an arithmetical (additive) performance attribution model, in every single
period the following theorem must be satisﬁed: the sum of the individual
performance contributions at a given level must equal the active return
ARadd at this level:
ARadd ¼
X
N
i¼1
X
K
k¼1
PCi;k ¼ RP  RB
ð6:47Þ
where PCi,k is the performance contribution related to the k-th risk factor
and the i-th sector; RP is the return on portfolio P; RB is the return on
benchmark B; N is the number of sectors within the portfolio and the
benchmark; K is the number of risk factors within the model.
For a single-currency portfolio whose local-currency return is not converted
into another currency, all K return drivers are represented by local risk factors.
But in case of a portfolio comprising more than one currency, the local returns
of the assets are to be transformed into the portfolio base currency in order to
obtain a reasonable portfolio return measure. As central banks and other
public investors are global ﬁnancial players that invest the foreign reserves
across diverse currencies, a single-currency attribution model is not sufﬁcient
to explain the (active) returns on aggregate portfolios in base currency.
This implies for the desired attribution model that currency effects
affecting the portfolio return and performance additionally would have to
join the local determinants:
RP;Base ¼ RCP;i;currency þ
X
N
i¼1
X
K
k¼1
RCP;i;k;local
ð6:48Þ
where RP,Base is the return on portfolio P in base currency; RCP,i,currency is the
contribution to the portfolio base currency return stemming from the
variation of the exchange rate of the base currency versus the local currency
of the i-th sector of portfolio P; RCi,k,local is the contribution of the i-th
sector of portfolio P to the notional local-currency portfolio return, with
respect to the local risk factor k.
245
Performance attribution

--- Página 274 ---
The local return of a currency-homogeneous sector (where ‘sector’ can
therefore also stand for an asset) and the appreciation or depreciation of the
exchange rate of the base currency relative to the local currency of the sector
on a given day are linked multiplicatively to get the return in base currency
(see formula [5.6]), while, on the contrary, arithmetical attribution models
decompose the (base currency) return additively (the same is therefore valid
for the active return). Caused by these methodically heterogeneous pro-
cedures for return calculation and return decomposition, an interaction
effect (i.e. an intra-temporal cross product) arises which should be visual-
ized separately in the attribution reports, because it is model-induced and
not intended by any active investment decisions. At portfolio level the
interaction effect IP is given by
IP ¼
X
N
i¼1
ðwP;i  wB;iÞ  ðRP;i;local  RB;i;localÞ  Ri;xchrate


ð6:49Þ
where wP,i and wB,i are the market value weights of the i-th sector within
portfolio P and benchmark B, respectively; RP,i,local and RB,i,local are the local
returns of the i-th sector within portfolio P and benchmark B, respectively;
Ri,xch-rate is the movement of the exchange rate of the base currency versus
the local currency of the i-th sector.
A ﬁrst simple, intuitive approach to determine the currency contribution
CYP,i of the i-th sector to the performance of a multi-currency portfolio P
relative to a benchmark B could be deﬁned as follows:
CYP;i ¼ wP;i  ðRP;i;base  RP;i;localÞ  wB;i  ðRB;i;base  RB;i;localÞ
ð6:50Þ
As this method does not explicitly incorporate the effect of currency
hedging it is only of restricted applicability for typical central bank port-
folios. In the following paragraphs two alternative theoretical attribution
techniques which explicitly include the impact of hedging are sketched and
subsequently a pragmatic solution is introduced.
In the Ankrim and Hensel (1994) approach the currency return is deﬁned to
consist of two components – the unpredictable ‘currency surprise’ and the
anticipatable interest rate differential (the forward premium) between the
corresponding countries, respectively. By adopting the models by Brinson and
Fachler (1985) and Brinson et al. (1986) the performance contributions
resulting from asset allocation and instrument selection decisions as well as
from the interaction between those categories are derived and the contribu-
tions attributable to the currency surprise and the forward premia are added.
246
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 275 ---
Alternatively, the method by Karnosky and Singer (1994) incorporates
continuous-time returns18 and treats forward premia as so called ‘return
premia’ above the local risk-free rates. Again, the local asset allocation,
instrument selection and interaction concepts are used and the currency
effect (with a separate contribution originating from currency forwards) is
added (see the articles by Laker 2003; 2005 as exemplary evaluations of the
Karnosky–Singer model). Although both of the mentioned multi-currency
models already exist for more than a decade, the portfolio managers who
use it in daily practice represent a minority. This is probably due to the fact
that these two approaches are too complex and academic to be applied in a
practical environment.
To overcome the methodical obstacles and interpretational disadvantages
which are prevalent within both of the above-described approaches, a
pragmatic way to disentangle the currency hedging effect from the overall
currency effect is presented. This scheme is also suitable for the attribution
analysis of foreign reserves portfolios of central banks and other public
wealth managers. The currency impact CYP,i of the i-th sector on the
portfolio performance can be broken down by
CYP;i ¼ ðwP;i  wB;iÞ  Ri;xchrate
¼ ðwP;i; invested  wB;i; investedÞ  Ri;xchrate
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
invested currency exposure effect
þ ðwP;i; hedged  wB;i; hedgedÞ  Ri;xchrate
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
hedged currency exposure effect
ð6:51Þ
where wP,i,invested and wB,i,invested are the invested weights, and wP,i,hedged and
wB,i,hedged are the hedged weights of the i-th sector within portfolio P and
benchmark B, respectively.
To be able to determine the hedged weights, each currency-dependent
derivative instrument within the portfolio, e.g. a currency forward, must be
split into its two currency sides – long and short. The currency-speciﬁc
contribution to the hedged weights stemming from each relevant instru-
ment is its long market value divided by the total portfolio market value
and its short market value divided by the total portfolio market value,
respectively. Subsequently, for every i-th sector within the portfolio, the
sum of the currency-speciﬁc hedged weights contributions and the sum of
18 Continuous-time returns were applied to enable the simple addition and subtraction of returns.
247
Performance attribution

--- Página 276 ---
the currency-speciﬁc invested weights contributions (e.g. from bonds) must
be compared with their benchmark equivalents to obtain the hedged cur-
rency exposures and invested currency exposures of the i-th sector needed
for the attribution analysis.
Contrary to the arithmetical attribution model, where the active return is
quantiﬁed as the difference between the portfolio and the benchmark
return, in a geometric attribution model it is based on the factorized quo-
tient of both returns. Burnie et al. (1998) and Menchero (2000b) describe
such models for single-currency portfolios while Buhl et al. (2000) present
a geometric attribution model for multi-currency portfolios. An explicit
comparison of arithmetic and geometric models based on case studies can
be found in Wong (2003).
In the multi-period case it is a fundamental law that the result of linking
the single-period performance contributions over the entire period must be
equal to the total-period active return. In additive models, however, the
model-inherent problem exists that the sum of the active returns (and
correspondingly the sum of the risk factor-speciﬁc performance effects) of
every single period does not equal the active return of the total period.19
Different methods of arithmetic multi-period attribution analysis attempt
to solve the inter-temporal residual-generating problem in different ways
(see e.g. Carino 1999; Kirievsky and Kirievsky 2000; Mirabelli 2000; Davies
and Laker 2001; Campisi 2002; Menchero 2000a; 2004). An algorithm which
should be explicitly mentioned is the recursive periodization method that
was ﬁrst published by Frongello (2002a) and then also conﬁrmed by
Bonafede et al. (2002). This approach completely satisﬁes the requirements
on a linking algorithm as deﬁned by Carino (1999, 6) and Frongello (2002a,
13) – the mathematical proof for the residual-free compounding of the
single-period contributions was presented by Frongello (2002b). As a
central bank reference, the suggested performance attribution model of
Danmarks Nationalbank also uses this linking technique (see Danmarks
Nationalbank 2004, appendix D).20
19 Also replacing the summation of the single-period effects by the multiplication of the factorized effects (in analogy to
the geometric compounding of discrete returns over time) would not lead to correct total-period results.
20 For the sake of completeness we also want to point at an alternative approach of how to accurately link performance
contributions over time. When carrying out the attribution analysis based on absolute (i.e. nominal) currency units
instead of relative (i.e. percentage) figures, the performance effects for the total period can simply be achieved by
summing up the single period contributions. This is exactly the way how the compounding over time is done within
the ECB attribution framework which is described in Section 5.
248
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 277 ---
4.2 Fixed-income performance attribution models
For central bank currency reserves portfolios, i.e. interest rate-sensitive
portfolios, the categories of asset allocation, security selection and inter-
action taken from the classical equity-oriented attribution models are not
adequate to mirror the investment process (an equivalent statement in
general terms can be found in Spaulding 2003, 74). In the context of a ﬁxed-
income portfolio there are at least ﬁve independent ways to deviate from the
benchmark in terms of risk factor exposures: duration position (e.g. by
trading futures contracts), term structure / yield position (e.g. by preferring
speciﬁc maturity buckets), country weighting (e.g. by overweighting high-
yield government bond markets), sector weighting / credit position (e.g. by
investing in market segments like agency bonds or Pfandbriefe) and
instrument selection. An accurate performance attribution model for a
central bank should be able to measure the distinct contributions of each
type of active investment decisions that is relevant for its individual port-
folio management process. To study, Colin (2005) provides an introduc-
tion into the ﬁeld of ﬁxed-income attribution analysis and also gives an
overview of the relevant concepts in a compact form; see also Buchholz
et al. (2004).
In this section we will concentrate on additive attribution models as they
seem more adequate than their geometric alternatives for the investment
analysis practice, in particular related to central banks and other public
investors. This is, among others, due to the fact that the resulting per-
formance contributions are more intuitive to understand from a methodical
point of view. The basic structure of a ﬁxed-income performance attribu-
tion model – independent of the aggregation level and the analysis period –
can be represented by
ARbase ¼ PCmarketrisk
þ PCselection;intraday;residual
ð6:52Þ
where ARbase is the active time-weighted rate of return in base currency;
PCmarketrisk is the contribution to active return related to market risk
factors; PCselection,intraday,residual is the portion of the performance which is
unexplained by the applied market risk factor model and which usually is
due to instrument selection, intraday trading activities and the real model
residual term.
249
Performance attribution

--- Página 278 ---
The model can then take the form of
ARbase ¼ PCcarry þ PCgovtYldChg þ PCspreadChg þ PCconvexity
þ PCcurrencyinvested þ PCcurrencyhedged
þ PCselection;intraday;residual
ð6:53Þ
where the market risk factor contributions to the performance are divided into
local and currency effects and can be classiﬁed as follows: carry effect PCcarry;
government yield change effect PCgovtYldChg; spread change effect PCspreadChg;
convexity effect PCconvexity; invested currency exposure effect PCcurrency-invested;
hedged currency exposure effect PCcurrency-hedged.
The following passage introduces an example of an explicit performance
attribution proposal which (among other alternatives) can be thought of
being appropriate for the investment process of ﬁxed-income central bank
currency reserves portfolios. The evaluation of the government yield change
effect is based on the concept of parsimonious functional models (see
Section 3.3) which derive a deﬁned number of the principal components of
the entire government yield curve motion, representing the government
return-driving parameters. By explicitly modelling the unique movements
parallel shift, twist and butterﬂy, the isolated contributions of typical central
bank term structure positioning strategies versus the benchmark, like ﬂat-
teners, steepeners or butterﬂy trades, can be clearly quantiﬁed.21 In publi-
cations on ﬁxed-income attribution analysis, the basis government yield
change effect is regularly broken down into those three partial motions (see
e.g. Ramaswamy 2001; Cubilie´ 2005; Murira and Sierra 2006). As a reference
publication by a central bank, the performance attribution proposal out-
lined by Danmarks Nationalbank (2004, appendix D) decomposes the
government curve movement effect into the impacts originating from the
parallel shift and from the variation of the curve shape (additionally it
disentangles the sector-speciﬁc spread change contribution from the
instrument-speciﬁc spread change effect).
Applying a perturbational technique (see Section 3) to our illustrative
example, the risk factor-related representation of the performance attribu-
tion model at portfolio level is deﬁned as follows:22
21 In literature sometimes the parallel shift effect is designated as ‘duration effect’ and the combined twist and butterfly
effect is called ‘yield curve reshaping effect’.
22 The duration against the parallel shift, twist and butterfly could either be a modified duration or an option-adjusted
duration. The most appropriate measure with respect to the diverse instrument types should be used; so in case of
portfolios with e.g. callable bonds the option-adjusted duration would be a more accurate measure than the
modified duration.
250
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 279 ---
ARP;base ¼
X
N
i¼1
ðyP;i  wP;i  yB;i  wB;iÞ  dt
þðDurP;i;PS  wP;i  DurB;i;PS  wB;iÞ  ðPSÞ
þðDurP;i;TW  wP;i  DurB;i;TW  wB;iÞ  ðTWÞ
þðDurP;i;BF  wP;i  DurB;i;BF  wB;iÞ  ðBFÞ
þðDurP;i;sector  wP;i  DurB;i;sector  wB;iÞ  ðdssectorÞ
þðDurP;i;country;euro  wP;i  DurB;i;country;euro  wB;iÞ  ðdscountry;euroÞ
þ1=2  ðConvP;i  wP;i  ConvB;i  wB;iÞ  ðdyÞ2
þðwP;i;invested  wB;i;investedÞ  Ri;xchrate
þðwP;i;hedged  wB;i;hedgedÞ  Ri;xchrate
þeselection;intraday;residual
8
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
<
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
:
ð6:54Þ
where for the i-th of N sectors within portfolio P with weighting wP,i: yP,i is
the yield to maturity; DurP,i,PS is the duration against a 100 basis point basis
curve parallel shift PS; DurP,i,TW is the duration towards a 100 basis point
basis curve twist TW; DurP,i,BF is the duration with respect to a 100 basis
point basis curve butterﬂy BF; DurP,i,sector is the duration related to a 100
basis point change of the spread between the yield of credit instruments and
the basis curve dssector; DurP,i,country,euro is the duration versus a 100 basis
point tightening or widening of the spread between the yield of euro-
denominated government instruments and the basis curve dscountry,euro;
ConvP,i is the convexity of the price/yield relationship; wP,i,invested is the
weight of the absolute invested currency exposure and wP,i,hedged is the weight
of the absolute hedged currency exposure, respectively, towards the appre-
ciation or depreciation of the exchange rate of the portfolio base currency
versus the local currency of the considered sector Ri,xchrate; eselection,intraday,
residual is the remaining fraction of the active return. The analogous notation is
valid for sector i within benchmark B.
Equation (6.54) can be rewritten as
ARP;base ¼ PCP;carry
þ PCP;PS þ PCP;TW þ PCP;BF þ PCP;sector þ PCP;country;euro
þ PCP;convexity þ PCP;currencyinvested þ PCP;currencyhedged
þ PCP;selection;intraday;residual
ð6:55Þ
where compared with equation (6.53): PCP,govtYldChg is split into the com-
ponents impacted by the parallel shifts PCi,PS, twists PCi,TW and butterﬂies
251
Performance attribution

--- Página 280 ---
PCi,BF; PCP,spreadChg is divided into the partitions related to sector spread
changes PCi,sector and euro country spread changes PCi,country,euro.
After having determined a market risk factor model to be used for
performance attribution, a procedure must be chosen to estimate the
model coefﬁcients. Our example is based on fundamental factor models as
they were described in Section 2.2; this means that the sensitivities
towards the risk factors (i.e. the factor loadings) are determined explicitly,
e.g. via the formulas (6.37), (6.38) and (6.39), and the risk factor mag-
nitudes themselves are estimated implicitly via cross-sectional regression
analysis (following the concept of empirical multi-factor models, the
regression could be directly done in one step and it does not necessarily
have to be divided into two parts, like e.g. the Arbitrage Pricing Theory
prescribes).
Though, to be able to clearly separate government yield change effects
from spread change effects, the regression should be divided into a gov-
ernment risk part and a credit risk part. So ﬁrst the regression is done based
on the individual returns of a government securities universe to determine
the parallel shift, twist and butterﬂy movements of the government curve
and additionally the shifts of the euro country spreads in a discrete single
period Dt (e.g. one day). The regression equation applicable to every
instrument i of the universe within period Dt would then be as follows (with
durations being as of the basis date):23
Ri;base  yi  Dt  Ri;convexity  Ri;currency
¼ Duri;PS  ðPSÞ þ Duri;TW  ðTWÞ þ Duri;BF  ðBFÞ
þ Duri;country;euro  ðDscountry;euroÞ þ e
ð6:56Þ
The dependent regression variable is the difference between the buy-and-
hold return24 of instrument i in base currency Ri,base and those return
components that are deterministic or directly observable on the market, i.e.
caused by the passage of time and due to the variation of the exchange rate
of the portfolio base currency versus the local currency of the instrument
in period Dt.25 Based on the factor sensitivities of the universe instruments
23 Note: the subscripts P and B are omitted because of the universe instruments’ independencies of any portfolio or
benchmark allocations.
24 The time-weighted rate of return cannot be used as the dependent variable, because the incorporated influences of
trading activities naturally cannot be explained by a market risk factor regression model.
25 Additionally the convexity return contribution is subtracted as no regression beta values need to be determined for
this risk factor category.
252
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 281 ---
(representing the independent variables of the regression model), the risk
factor changes can then be estimated via standard ordinary least squares
analysis (OLS).
Subsequently, the basis date spread durations of a representative universe
of credit risk-bearing securities are sector-speciﬁcally regressed on the
residual returns (after subtracting the government curve-induced return
portions) ecredit in period Dt to derive the best-ﬁtting sector spread changes,
e.g. via OLS:
ecredit ¼ Duri;spr  ðDssectorÞ þ especific
ð6:57Þ
The residual term especiﬁc could be interpreted as the speciﬁc contribution
from instrument selection which represents market movement-related
elements not attributed so far, like the effect originating from issue- or
issuer-speciﬁc spread changes.
For central banks with eligible and traded instruments with embedded
options (e.g. callable bonds) and/or prepayment facilities (e.g. asset-backed
securities) the causes of the active return on the portfolio versus the
benchmark would probably not satisfactorily be captured by the exemplary
performance attribution model as described so far, because two return-
driving determinants would be missing: volatility changes of the basis
instruments and prepayment rate ﬂuctuations. By also incorporating these
risk factors into the analysis, the attribution model grows to26
ARP;base ¼ PCP;carry þPCP;PS þ PCP;TW þ PCP;BF þ PCP;sector
þ PCP;country;euro þ PCP;convexity þ PCP;currencyinvested
þ PCP;currencyhedged þPCP;volatility þ PCP;prepayment
þ PCP;selection;intraday;residual
ð6:58Þ
where for portfolio P: PCP,volatility is the performance contribution with
respect to the volatility variations of the underlying securities of the
derivative instruments; PCP,prepayment is the effect of ﬂuctuations of the
prepayment rates on the active return.
26 Equation (6.58) is also applicable to levels beneath the total portfolio level, i.e. from a security level upwards; for the
aggregation of attribution effects across portfolio sector levels see formula (6.45) as well as equation (6.63) as used in
a speciﬁc model context.
253
Performance attribution

--- Página 282 ---
Last but not least, a performance-generating effect which has not been
explicitly discussed so far is the intraday trading effect.27 In principle, there
are two methodically alternative ways how to determine it: implicitly by
applying a holdings-based attribution system and explicitly by applying a
transaction-based attribution system. The dependent variable which is to be
explained within the holdings-based attribution framework naturally is the
buy-and-hold return, whereas the variable to be decomposed within the
transaction-based attribution analysis is the time-weighted rate of return. So
the ﬁrst approach is solely based on the instrument and portfolio market
value changes, respectively, and the second method also incorporates
transactions data into the analysis, so that it allows the direct calculation of
the explicit effects induced by the transactions prices (in comparison with
the valuation prices of the same day). In order to complement the holdings-
based attribution method by the intraday trading effect, the latter could be
indirectly determined by relating the buy-and-hold return provided by
the performance attribution system to the time-weighted rate of return
delivered by the performance measurement system. There is no consensus
among experts as to which method should be preferred and would be more
appropriate for practical use and there are pros and cons for each of the two
approaches. Explicitly including the intraday trading effect PCP,intraday into
the model, equation (6.58) becomes
ARP;base ¼ PCP;carry þ PCP;PS þ PCP;TW þ PCP;BF þ PCP;sector
þ PCP;country;euro þ PCP;convexity þ PCP;currencyinvested
þ PCP;currencyhedged þ PCP;volatility þ PCP;prepayment
þ PCP;intraday þ PCP;selection;residual
ð6:59Þ
The component ‘residual’ of the composite effect item PCP,selection,residual
28
represents any inaccuracies, e.g. due to different pricing sources and/or
freezing times for the securities’ prices in the performance measurement
system and for the yield curves in the performance attribution system. For
multi-currency portfolios the residual effect is also caused by the following
27 The impact of the intraday trading effect will naturally be of greater significance and importance for the return and
performance attribution analysis of active investment portfolios than of passive benchmark portfolios.
28 In attribution modelling it is impossible to disentangle the performance contribution stemming from security
selection from the model noise. The only way to quantify the magnitude of the real residual effect and hence to assess
the explanatory quality of the model would be to define some clear-cut positions (e.g. separate outright duration and
curve positions) for testing purposes, to run the attribution analysis for the positions and to verify whether the
model attributes the active return accordingly and the remaining performance portion is equivalent to zero.
254
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 283 ---
two contradictory concepts: on the one hand the local return and the
currency return are combined multiplicatively and on the other hand the
base currency return (and performance) is decomposed additively in
arithmetic models – the derivation of this intra-temporal cross product is
shown in formula (6.49).
The above-described way to carry out performance attribution analysis is
only one example among others. To give the reader an impression of a
completely diverging approach which was published in a renowned journal,
the Lord (1997) model is outlined. It is most probably the ﬁrst publication
of an explicit performance attribution technique for interest rate-sensitive
portfolios (to differentiate, the approach proposed in Fong et al. (1983) is
probably the ﬁrst published model for the return decomposition of interest
rate-dependent portfolios). It incorporates the concept of the so-called
duration-matched Treasury bond (DMT) which represents the duration-
speciﬁc level of the corresponding government yield curve. In the attribu-
tion model, to every portfolio bond a synthetic DMT (originating from the
government yield curve) is assigned – per deﬁnition the duration of the
DMT at the beginning of the analysis period is identical to the duration of
the bond it was selected to match.
Contrary to the exemplary scheme described before, the Lord model is
based on pricing from ﬁrst principles and decomposes the local-currency
buy-and-hold return on an interest rate-sensitive instrument Ri,Dt in period
Dt ¼ [t–1;t] generally into the components income return and price return –
according to the total return formula:
Ri;Dt ¼ Pi;t þ AIi;t þ CPi;t  Pi;t1
Pi;t1
¼ AIi;t þ CPi;t
Pi;t1
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
income return
þ Pi;t  Pi;t1
Pi;t1
|ﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ{zﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄﬄ}
price return
ð6:60Þ
where for security i as of day t: Pi,t is the market price per end of the day; AIi,t
are the accrued interest; CPi,t are the coupon payments.
The income return comprises the accrued interest and coupon payments
during the analysis period (i.e. the deterministic ordinary income). By
further dividing the price return into respective components, the model is
expressed in terms of risk factor-induced sub-returns in the following way
(by omitting the subscript dt):29
29 A similar approach to the Lord (1997) model can be found in Campisi (2000) – but herein the return is broken
down into fewer components.
255
Performance attribution

--- Página 284 ---
Ri ¼ Ri;income þ Ri;carry þ Ri;govtYldChg þ Ri;spreadChg þ Ri;residual
ð6:61Þ
where Ri,income is the income return; Ri,carry is the carry return;30 the gov-
ernment yield change return Ri,govtYldChg is quantiﬁed based on the yield
change of the corresponding DMT; the spread change return Ri,spreadChg
is the return portion that was generated by the narrowing or widening of
the spread between the yield of the instrument and the corresponding DMT;
Ri,residual is the remaining return fraction.
Breaking the yield and spread change returns further down leads to
Ri ¼ Ri;income þ Ri;carry þ Ri;PS þ Ri;YC þ Ri;sector
þ Ri;issuer þ Ri;residual
ð6:62Þ
where the parallel shift return Ri,PS measures the partition of the govern-
ment yield change return that was induced by the change of the yield of the
ﬁve-year government bond, and the yield-curve return Ri,YC is the remaining
partition; the sector spread change return Ri,sector is the component of the
spread change return due to the variation of the option-adjusted spread; and
the issue- or issuer-speciﬁc spread change return Ri,issuer is the remaining
component.
Due to several oversimplifying assumptions (e.g. the parallel shift return
is based on a single vertex at the government yield curve), the Lord model
obviously would generate substantial methodically-induced distorted return
(and consequently also performance) decompositions and hence residual
effects. Therefore it will most probably not ﬁnd its way to investment
management practice in central banks and other public wealth management
institutions where only a limited leeway for position taking versus the
benchmark and correspondingly relatively small active returns are preva-
lent. It was incorporated into the chapter to demonstrate an alternative way
how to combine diverse elementary attribution concepts within one model,
i.e. in this case the DMT approach and pricing from ﬁrst principles, thus
representing a bottom-up scheme.31 The factor-speciﬁc sub-returns on
security level can then be aggregated to any level A via their market value
weights (up to the total portfolio level). Taking the differences between the
30 Here, the carry return consists of the contributions from rolling down the yield curve as well as the accretion (or
decline) of the instrument’s price toward par.
31 One significant input variable for the decision to opt for or against a security level-based attribution modelling
technique will naturally be the objective class of recipients of the attribution reports.
256
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 285 ---
factor-related portfolio and benchmark return contributions provides the
corresponding risk factor contributions to the active return at level A:
PCA;k ¼
X
N
i¼1
ðRP;A;i;k  wP;A;iÞ 
X
N
i¼1
ðRB;A;i;k  wB;A;iÞ
ð6:63Þ
where PCA,k is the performance contribution of the k-th risk factor to the
active return at level A; RP,A,i,k and RB,A,i,k are the sub-returns related to the
k-th risk factor and the i-th sector within level A of portfolio P and
benchmark B, respectively; wP,A,i and wB,A,i are the weights of the i-th sector
within level A of portfolio P and benchmark B, respectively; N is the number
of sectors within level A.
A version of to the duration-matched Treasury bond (DMT) concept as
described by Lord (1997) was applied at the European Central Bank some
years ago in a ﬁrst approach to develop a ﬁxed-income performance
attribution technique. The following functionality was characterizing: a
spread product (e.g. an agency bond, a swap or BIS product), which de facto
simultaneously embodies a duration and spread position, was matched to a
risk-free alternative with similar characteristics regarding maturity and
duration. This risk-free alternative (which is deﬁned as a government
security in some central banks like the ECB32 or the swap curve in others
like the Bank of Canada) was called the reference bond. The duration effect
of the position was then calculated assuming the portfolio manager had
bought the reference bond and the spread effect was deduced using the
spread developments of the e.g. agency bond and its reference bond.33
In comparison, the current ECB solution is explained in the subsequent
section.
5. The ECB approach to performance attribution34
The management of the ECB’s foreign reserves is a decentralized process
where Eurosystem National Central Banks (NCBs) act as agencies of the
32 In that case the reference bond of a government security is the government security itself.
33 Alternatively to bottom-up approaches, like the Lord (1997) model, also top-down ﬁxed-income attribution analysis
techniques can be found in the literature. As an example, the methodology proposed by Van Breukelen (2000) is
based on top-down investment decision processes which rely on weighted duration bets. The Van Breukelen method
delivers the following attribution results: performance contribution of the duration decisions at total portfolio level
as well as the effects attributed to asset allocation, instrument selection and interaction at sector level.
34 We would like to thank Stig Hesselberg for his contribution to the ECB performance attribution framework.
257
Performance attribution

--- Página 286 ---
ECB. The ECB has therefore worked closely with NCBs in developing its
approach to performance attribution. The multivariate solution (following
the idea of multi-factor return decompositions models as explained in
Section 2) also preferred by the NCBs takes the following risk factors into
account: carry (i.e. the passage of time), duration (i.e. the parallel shift of
the basis government yield curve), yield curve (i.e. the change of slope and
curvature of the basis government yield curve) and the change of credit
spreads (in terms of sector spreads)35. Furthermore, the coverage of the
impacts from intraday trading, securities lending and instrument selection
was also considered as being important.
As visualized in formula (6.10) the local-currency return on an interest
rate-sensitive instrument (and thus also portfolio) is generally composed of
the time decay effect and the yield change effect. Following equation (6.19)
the linear and the quadratic component of the yield change effect could be
disentangled from each other, and by further decomposing the linear yield
change effect into a basis government yield change effect and spread change
effect, the price/yield change relationship could be represented as done in
formula (6.20). Footing on these theoretical foundations, a conceptually
unique framework was developed for ﬁxed-income performance attribution
at the ECB and is sketched in this section.
The market risk factor model developed by the Risk Management
Division of the European Central Bank and applied to the performance
attribution analysis of the management of the currency reserve and own funds
portfolios of the ECB is based on a key rates approach (see Section 3.3) to
derive the carry effect, government yield change effect, sector and euro
country spread change effects and convexity effect. The key rates represent
the points on a term structure where yield or spread changes are considered
important for the evolution of the market value of the portfolio under
consideration. Typically, higher granularity would be chosen at the short
end of the term structure; for the ECB performance attribution model the
following key rate maturities are deﬁned: 0, 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 years. As all of the coding was done with the
programming language ‘Matlab’, which is a very fast matrix-operating and
code-interpreting tool, despite of the relative large number of chosen key
rate maturities with respect to diverse yield curves, the procedure of run-
ning the attribution analysis (even for longer periods) only takes a very
short time.
35 Complementary to the sector spread effect the euro country spread effect is also covered by the ECB model.
258
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 287 ---
The idea of the methodology is based on decomposing the whole port-
folio into cash ﬂows belonging to different ﬁxed-income asset classes
(related to different yield or spread curves). Each of these cash ﬂows can be
viewed as a zero-coupon bond, characterized by the time to maturity and
the future (nominal) payment. All the payments are then reallocated to the
nearest key rates in such a way, that the net present value and the modiﬁed
duration of the payments are preserved. For example, a payment due in
1.5 years would be redistributed to the one-year key rate and the two-year
key rate with roughly half of the nominal amount at each. This decom-
position transforms the vast array of portfolio cash ﬂows into a limited
number of synthetic zero-coupon bonds (corresponding to the number of
key rates) that are much more tractable and still approximate closely those
of the actual portfolio.
The main strength of this approach is that it gives a more precise
approximation of actual position size and impact than allocation by time
bucket does. This is achieved partly because no discrete jumps occur in the
allocation of the exposures of a bond when it moves from one key rate
maturity (and hence also key rate maturity bucket) to another. The high
precision is especially important for portfolio management with low
tracking error, as it is mostly true for central banks and other public
investors. Further, the method establishes a clear correspondence between
performance attribution and the positions as they are taken by the portfolio
managers. In a set-up with limited leeway for position taking, portfolio
managers are likely to choose their over- and underweight across credit
classes and across the maturity spectrum carefully. This is captured by the
key rate exposures and directly attributed to the performance. It should also
be noted that the method is equally useful for performance attribution and
return attribution.
Recall that in continuous time the price of a zero-coupon bond P is
calculated as
P ¼ CFTt  eyTt Tt
ð
Þ
ð6:64Þ
where CFT–t is a cash ﬂow with time to payment T–t and yT–t is the con-
tinuously-compounded bond yield. Further we note that the ﬁrst derivative
of the bond price, with respect to the yield to maturity, is
@P
@y ¼ ðT  tÞ  CFTt  eyTtðTtÞ ¼ ðT  tÞ  CFTt  DTt
ð6:65Þ
259
Performance attribution

--- Página 288 ---
where the discount factor is deﬁned as DTt ¼ eyTtðTtÞ.
Correspondingly, the price of a synthetic zero-coupon bond P at a key
rate maturity X – t is written as
P ¼ CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ ¼ CFXt  DXt
ð6:66Þ
When an actual cash ﬂow CFT–t is distributed to the two neighbouring
key rates as the cash ﬂows CFS–t and CFU–t, the total market value and the
interest rate sensitivity should be preserved. These restrictions can be
written as36
CFSt  DSt þ CFUt  DUt ¼ CFTt  DTt
ð6:67Þ
ðS  tÞ  CFSt  DSt þ ðU  tÞ  CFUt  DUt
¼ ðT  tÞ  CFTt  DTt
ð6:68Þ
Rearranging provides the following result:
CFSt ¼ CFTt  DTt  ðT  tÞ  ðU  tÞ
½

DSt  ðS  tÞ  ðU  tÞ
½

ð6:69Þ
and
CFUt ¼ CFTt  DTt  ðT  tÞ  ðS  tÞ
½

DUt  ðU  tÞ  ðS  tÞ
½

ð6:70Þ
These formulas allow us to distribute all actual cash ﬂows to the nearest key
rates (and thereby express all the exposure in terms of a few zero-coupon
bonds) and at the same time preserve the market value and the modiﬁed
duration.37
To facilitate a simple interpretation of the results, one curve (i.e. the
reference government curve) is quoted in absolute levels in order to form
the basis, while all other yield curves are quoted in terms of the spread to
this curve. The theoretical market value impact on a portfolio can be cal-
culated using observed levels and changes for the relevant curves; likewise
the impact of the difference between the portfolio and its benchmark can
36 For a comparison of cash flow mapping algorithms see Henrard (2000).
37 Note that the convexity (second-order derivative of the bond price with respect to the yield) is not preserved. It can
be shown that in most cases convexity will not be the same. This effect, however, is very limited and will not
generally be an issue of concern.
260
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 289 ---
also be calculated. Referencing to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, the impact of any
interest exposures on the zero-coupon bond price, irrespective of being in
absolute (i.e. nominal) terms or relative (i.e. percentage) terms, can be
quantiﬁed using Taylor expansions.38 For further purposes the price change
effects are normalized to one unit of cash equivalent exposure. The formulae
are applied to the lowest discrete increment in time available, i.e. dt ¼ Dt is
one day (1/365 years) and dyX–t ¼ DyX–t is a daily change in yields.
The price effects of ﬁrst and second order DPkeyRateChg,X–t per unit of cash
equivalent exposure due to a key rate change are approximated by39
DPkeyRateChg;Xt   ðX  tÞ  CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  DyXt
þ 1
2  ðX  tÞ2  CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  ðDyXtÞ2

CFXt¼1
ð6:71Þ
By applying the concept of distinguishing between a reference government
curve and the corresponding spread curves, the ﬁrst-order approximation in
formula (6.71) quantiﬁes both the basis government yield change effect
DPgovtYldChg,X–t when related to the reference government curve and the
spread change effect DPspreadChg,X–t when related to the spread curves. Con-
sequently, applying this method avoids to explicitly compute the securities’
spread durations and to estimate the spread changes via regression analysis as
presented in the example of Section 4.2.
The basis government yield change effect is further broken down into the
components related to the parallel shift and the curve reshaping. Alternatively
to the return-based approaches outlined in Section 3.3, the segregation was
done at the exposure side by dividing the relative positions versus the
benchmark into outright duration and curve positions following a speciﬁc
algorithm which was deﬁned by the ECB Risk Management Division. As
there is no unique way to do the decomposition, the objective was to use an
algorithm that corresponds best with the intentions and the style of the
portfolio managers when taking positions. The ECB approach satisﬁes the
following three conditions. First, the sum of the key rate positions assigned
to the overall ‘curve position’ is zero. In other words, the derived ‘curve
38 The Taylor expansion technique guarantees the determination of distinct price effects by avoiding any overlapping
effects and therefore represents a potential alternative to regression analysis in the context of performance
attribution analysis.
39 To adequately capture the key rate change impacts which arise from the cash flows assigned to key rate zero (but for
which the original times to maturity are naturally greater than zero), appropriate portfolio- and benchmark-specific
values must be chosen for the expression X–t in formula (6.71).
261
Performance attribution

--- Página 290 ---
position’ is neutral (to the ﬁrst-order approximation) to a parallel shift in
yields. Second, the ‘outright duration position’ does not contain two key rate
positions of different sign. And ﬁnally, no curve and outright duration
positions are assigned to key rates where no position is actually taken. The
applied modelling technique elegantly circumvents the requirement to
especially establish a functional model, like the frequently used schemes by
Nelson and Siegel (1987) and Svensson (1994), to derive the partial gov-
ernment curve movements and/or durations as described in Section 3.3.
Again following the Taylor expansion rule, the ﬁrst- and second-order
price effects DPcarry,X–t per unit of cash equivalent exposure due to the carry
are approximated by
DPcarry;Xt  yXt  CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  Dt
þ 1
2  y2
Xt  CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  ðDtÞ2

CFXt¼1
ð6:72Þ
To avoid potential inaccuracies of a perturbational model approach, as men-
tioned in Section 3.1, three further components are included into the effect
calculation. The ﬁrst is the so-called ‘roll-down’, related to the fact that the
yield of a security may change only due to the passage of time if the yield curve
is not ﬂat. This is not taken into account in the static approach for the carry
above. If the yield curve is upward sloping and unchanged then the effective
yield of a zero-coupon bond will decrease (and the price will increase) simply
due to the passage of time. The steepness of the yield curve and the corres-
ponding yield change of one day (1/365 years) are calculated and inserted into
the formula for the key rate change effect (6.71) to determine the price effect
DProll–down,X–t due to the roll-down per unit of cash equivalent exposure:
DProlldown;Xt ðX  tÞ  CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  Dyrolldown;Xt
 1
2  ðX  tÞ2  CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  ðDyrolldown;XtÞ2

CFXt¼1
ð6:73Þ
where the yield or spread change caused by the roll down Dyroll–down,X–t, i.e.
the change in yield or spread due to the slope between the key rate maturity
X – t and the key rate maturity to the left (X – t)–1 on an unchanged curve,
is given by40
40 The impact of the roll-down on the yield is expressed with opposite sign in equation (6.74) to ﬁt with formula (6.73).
262
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 291 ---
Dyrolldown;Xt ¼
yXt  yðXtÞ1
ðX  tÞ  ðX  tÞ1
 Dt
ð6:74Þ
The second complementary price effect is derived as a part of the Taylor
expansion and is the cross effect (i.e. the interaction) between the change in
time and the change in yield. The price effect DPcross,X–t per unit of cash
equivalent exposure from this is approximated as
DPcross;Xt  1  ðX  tÞXt


 CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  Dt  DyXt

CFXt¼1
ð6:75Þ
The third supplementary effect is due to the alternative cost which is
associated with one of the sources for extra income when a credit bond is in
the portfolio. Because all cash ﬂows are expressed in terms of cash
equivalents, the effect of buying a bond that is cheaper then a government
bond (besides the carry and roll-down) needs to be captured separately. The
money saved by buying the cheap bond is invested at the risk-free rate and is
hence also increasing the total return from this position. Even though this
effect is also small it is added for completeness. If iX–t is the yield of the
credit bond then the net present value of the money V0 invested at the risk-
free rate will be
V0 ¼ CFXt  eyXtðXtÞ  CFXt  eiXtðXtÞ
ð6:76Þ
In turn, this is inserted into the formula for the carry effect (6.72) using for
yX–t the risk-free rate to achieve the corresponding price effect DPalt-cost,X–t
per unit of cash equivalent exposure:
DPaltcost;Xt ¼ CFXt  eyc¼govt;XtðXtÞ
 CFXt  eðyc6¼govt;Xtþyc¼govt;XtÞðXtÞjCFXt¼1
ð6:77Þ
where c¼govt indicates the reference government yield curve and c6¼govt
designates the set of relevant spread curves.
For the ﬁnal reporting the effect of carry, the cross (interaction) effect, the
roll down effect and the effect due to alternative cost are all added together
to become the aggregate DPcarryEtc,X–t:
DPcarryEtc;Xt ¼ DPcarry;Xt þ DProlldown;Xt þ DPcross;Xt
þ DPaltcost;Xt
ð6:78Þ
263
Performance attribution

--- Página 292 ---
The terminology (denotation) for this composite effect is still ‘carry’ in the
ﬁnal report – intuitively this is the most obvious choice and since the effect
of carry is by far the largest of the four effects, this improves the readability
of the ﬁnal report without any signiﬁcant loss of information.
At the exposure side, by differentiating between a basis government curve
and dependent spread curves, a government bond affects only the exposures
related to the reference government curve,41 while a credit bond affects both
the reference government curve exposures and the exposures towards the
spread curve associated with the bond’s asset class. This naturally divides the
performance into a part related to government exposures and the parts
related to exposures to different classes of credit instruments (consequently
the application of an artiﬁcial separation approach like the duration-
matched Treasury bond method as described in Lord 1997, and sketched in
Section 4.2, is not of relevance). At total portfolio level,42 this can be for-
malized by the following two equations:
ExpP;govt;Xt;t ¼
X
8c
X
8i
CFP;i;c;Xt;t
ð6:79Þ
ExpP;c;Xt;t ¼
X
8i
CFP;i;c;Xt;t 8c 6¼ govt
ð6:80Þ
where for analysis day t: ExpP,govt,X–t,t is the absolute cash equivalent
exposure of portfolio P with respect to the reference government curve at
key rate maturity X–t; ExpP,c,X–t,t related to c6¼govt is the absolute cash
equivalent exposure of portfolio P related to a curve c different from the
reference government curve at key rate maturity X–t; CFP,i,c,X–t,t is a cash
ﬂow of instrument i held in portfolio P which is assigned to key rate
maturity X–t of curve c.
In order to quantify the market model-related performance contribu-
tions, the absolute cash equivalent exposures of the portfolio at all key rates
across all included curves on all analysis days under consideration are
compared with those of the re-scaled43 benchmark (based on the two sets of
41 In this context the ECB own-funds portfolio represents an exceptional case as it contains euro-denominated assets.
The German government yield curve was chosen as the basis government yield curve and therefore positions in non-
German government issues will contribute to the euro country spread exposure.
42 The ECB performance attribution framework was designed to report the effects at total portfolio level.
43 Due to the fact that the exposures are quoted as cash equivalents, the risk factor exposures of a benchmark have to
be adjusted by the market value ratio of the considered portfolio and the benchmark on every day of the analysis
period.
264
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 293 ---
synthetic zero bonds) and the differences reﬂect the position of the portfolio
manager on a given day:
RelExpPB;c;Xt;t ¼ ExpP;c;Xt;t  ExpB;c;Xt;t  MVP;t
MVB;t
ð6:81Þ
where for analysis day t: RelExpP–B,c,X–t,t is the relative cash equivalent
exposure of portfolio P versus benchmark B at key rate maturity X–t of
curve c; ExpB,c,X–t,t is the corresponding absolute exposure of benchmark B;
MVPF,t and MVBM,t are the market values of portfolio P and benchmark B,
respectively.
The over- and underweight versus the benchmark in each of the synthetic
zero-coupon bonds are then combined with the diverse above-mentioned
price effects per cash equivalent exposure unit:
PCP;k;c;Xt;t ¼ RelExpPB;c;Xt;t1  DPk;c;Xt;t
ð6:82Þ
where for analysis day t: PCP,k,c,X–t,t is the contribution to the performance of
portfolio P with respect to risk factor k, curve c and key rate maturity X – t;
DPk,c,X–t,t is the price change effect related to risk factor k at key rate maturity
X – t of curve c.
As the various performance contributions on every single analysis day are
quantiﬁed in terms of effects on cash equivalent exposures and hence expressed
in currency units, the model inherently possesses the outstanding feature that
the performance contributions over a longer analysis period are simply
accurately determined by adding up the single-period results. The transform-
ation to percentage (or basis point) numbers is ﬁnally done by relating the total
period results to the basis portfolio market value.44 This leads to the identical
result as geometrically correctly linking the single-period percentage effects
over time, and therefore the application of an explicit correction mechanism
for the multi-period case of additive models as explained in Section 4.1
(e.g. the algorithm published in Frongello 2002a) is not of relevance.
The portion of the performance which is not inﬂuenced by any of the
speciﬁed market risk factors was – in the ECB case – identiﬁed to be mostly
caused by a combination of the following categories: intraday trading
44 For the case of external portfolio cash flows (i.e. injections and/or withdrawals) during the analysis period, a more
complex two-step re-scaling algorithm is applied to the attribution framework. First, the cumulative attribution
effects are converted into basis point values by relating them to the simple Dietz basis market values and then the
adjustment is done with respect to the performance based on the time-weighted rates of return taken from the
performance measurement system.
265
Performance attribution

--- Página 294 ---
activities, securities lending and instrument selection. As the ECB per-
formance attribution model builds on a transaction-based approach (for a
methodical comparison with the holdings-based alternative see the end of
Section 4.2), the intraday trading effect is based on comparing the trans-
action prices with the corresponding bid/ask end-of-day valuation prices
which were frozen in the portfolio evaluation system, and it shows the
impact of trading better or worse than at freezing time.45 To intention-
speciﬁcally distinguish, the intraday trading effect is decomposed into the
partition due to transactions on benchmark rebalancing days (on which also
the relevant portfolios have to be adequately adjusted) and the part related
to the other (i.e. trader-initiated) transactions. After having also included
the impact resulting from securities lending activities into the analysis, the
attribution effect item ‘selection, residual’ technically represents the frac-
tion of the performance which was not explicitly explained by the ingre-
dients of the methodology considered so far. From a fundamental point of
view, this composite effect should for the most part be originated by superior
or inferior instrument selection relative to the average market movements
and also relative to the speciﬁc benchmark. Consequently, this means for the
local-currency ECB model that the magnitude of this contributory category
is mainly generated by rich/cheap trading and issue- or issuer-speciﬁc spread
change effects (i.e. the part of the securities’ yield change effects not
described by the government yield change and credit spread change effects
based on the deﬁned curves and the applied key rate concept), and it is
usually just to a minor extent caused by the model noise, i.e. the real residual
or model error term which could be due to pricing inaccuracies.
The local-currency additive ECB ﬁxed-income performance attribution
model is structured as follows:
RP  RB ¼ PCP;carryEtc;govt þ PCP;carryEtc;sector
þ PCP;duration;govt þ PCP;YC;govt þ PCP;convexity
þ PCP;sector þ PCP;country;euro
þ PCP;intraday;rebalancing þ PCP;intraday;rest
þ PCP;securitieslending
þ PCP;selection;residual
ð6:83Þ
45 This procedure perfectly coincides with the concept of the time-weighted rate of return for whose determination the
intraday transaction-induced cash flows are related to the end-of-day market values.
266
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 295 ---
where RP is the portfolio return and RB is the benchmark return; the groups of
impacts on the performance are as follows: carry effect and the comple-
mentary effects of roll down, interaction and alternative cost with respect to
relative exposures towards the basis government curve PCP,carryEtc,govt and
separately related to the sector spread curves PCP,carryEtc,sector; the effect of
outright duration positions and the parallel shift of the basis government
curve PCP,duration,govt; the effect of curve positions and the reshaping of the
basis government yield curve PCP,YC,govt; the effect of the quadratic yield
changes PCP,convexity; the effect of spread positions and the narrowing and
widening of sector spreads PCP,sector and euro country spreads PCP,country,euro.46
The remaining contributory group is composed of: intraday trading
on benchmark rebalancing days PCP,intraday,rebalancing and on other days
PCP,intraday,rest; gains from securities lending PCP,securitieslending; and a com-
posite inﬂuence from security selection and the real residual PCP,selection,residual.
6. Conclusions
Fixed-income performance attribution analysis should be an integral part of
the investment process of central banks and other public investors that
enables them to accurately identify the sources of out- or underperform-
ance. By their ability to explicitly demonstrate the consequences of distinct
managerial decisions, attribution reports contribute a signiﬁcant portion
to the transparency of the investment process. What makes performance
attribution in general and ﬁxed-income attribution in particular a rather
challenging discipline is the fact that no standardized theoretical approaches
(i.e. no ‘recipes’) exist and that the individual model identiﬁcation is not the
result of any mathematical procedure. An additional difﬁculty is faced in the
case of most central bank portfolios for which active position taking is
limited and consequently the size of out- and underperformance to be
attributed to risk factors is small. Having chosen an appropriate risk factor
model that ﬁts with the individual investment decision process of a central
bank by analytically deriving the portfolio-relevant return-driving com-
ponents, the model could furthermore be applied to other quantitative
aspects of the investment process like risk attribution, risk budgeting or
portfolio and also benchmark optimization.
46 Note that the euro country spread effect is solely relevant for the ECB own-funds portfolios and not for the foreign
reserves portfolios.
267
Performance attribution

--- Página 296 ---
An expert team of the Risk Management Division of the European
Central Bank (together with selected quantitative analysts from European
national central banks) recently designed and programmed its second
approach for an explicit ﬁxed-income performance attribution framework,
speciﬁcally tailored to the investment process of the foreign reserves port-
folios as well as the own funds portfolios of the ECB. The implemented
methodology was speciﬁed in a high-level conceptual way such as to avoid
shortcomings of techniques widely used in practice, and the output of the
realized ECB system is already used in regular reporting.
268
Marton, R. and Bourquin, H.

--- Página 297 ---
Part II
Policy operations

--- Página 299 ---
7
Risk management and market impact
of central bank credit operations
Ulrich Bindseil and Francesco Papadia
1. Introduction1
This chapter provides an overview of the risk management issues arising in
central bank repurchase operations conducted to implement monetary
policy. The topic will be further deepened in the next three chapters. In
some sense, Chapters 7 to 10 are more focused on central banks than the
rest of the book, since the risk management design of monetary policy
operations is obviously also guided by policy needs. Still, many of the
considerations made in this chapter are also relevant for any institution
entering an agreement on the collateralization of its exposures with coun-
terparties. In such a collateral agreement, a set of eligible assets needs to be
deﬁned, as well as risk mitigation measures, including valuation principles,
haircuts and limits. The counterparties to the agreement are then con-
strained by it with regard to the type and amount of collateral they submit
to cover exposures. However, typically, the agreements also allow some
ﬂexibility and discretion to counterparties in choosing different types of
collateral, since their respective availability cannot be anticipated. As a
consequence, the party receiving collateral cannot anticipate exactly what
risks it will take. Even if one were to impose very tight constraints regarding
the type of collateral to be used, the degree of control would not be perfect,
since one cannot anticipate to what extent exposures will be created. At the
end, there is a trade-off between the precision of a given collateral agree-
ment and the ﬂexibility allowed to the counterparties in choosing collateral,
1 The authors are indebted to Younes Bensalah, Ivan Fre´chard, Andres Manzanares, Tommi Moilainen, Ken Nyholm
and in particular Vesa Poikonen for their input to the chapter. Useful comments were also received from Denis
Blenck, Isabel von Ko¨ppen, Marco Lagana, Paul Mercier, Martin Perina, Francesco Mongelli, Ludger Schuknecht and
Guido Wolswijk. Any remaining mistakes as well as the opinions expressed are, of course, the sole responsibility of
the authors.
271

--- Página 300 ---
which brings about uncertainty on the residual risks which is taken when
entering into a transaction.
Central banks implement monetary policy by steering short-term market
interest rates around a target level. They do this essentially by controlling
the supply of liquidity, i.e. of the deposits held by banks with the central
bank, mostly by means of open market operations. Speciﬁcally, major
central banks carry out open market operations, in which liquidity is pro-
vided on a temporary basis. In the case of the Eurosystem, an overall
amount of close to EUR 500 billion was provided at end June 2007, of which
more than EUR 300 billion was in the form of operations with a one-week
maturity and the rest in the form of three-months operations.
In theory, these temporary operations could take the form of unsecured
short-term loans to banks, offered via a tender procedure. It is, however,
one of the oldest and least-disputed principles that a central bank should,
under no circumstance, provide unsecured credit to banks.2 This principle
is enshrined, in the case of the Eurosystem, in article 18.1 of the Statute of
the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank
(hereafter referred to as the ESCB/ECB Statute), which prescribes that any
Eurosystem credit operation needs to be ‘based on adequate collateral’.
There are various reasons behind the principle that central banks should
not provide lending without collateral,3 namely:
 Their function, and area of expertise, is the implementation of monetary
policy aimed at price stability, not the management of credit risk.
 While access to central bank credit should be based on the principles of
transparency and equal treatment, unsecured lending is a risky art,
requiring discretion, which is neither compatible with these principles
nor with the central bank accountability.
 Central banks need to act quickly in monetary policy operations and,
exceptionally, also in operations aiming at maintaining ﬁnancial stability.
Unsecured lending would require careful and time-consuming analysis
and limit setting.
 They need to deal with a high number of banks, which can include banks
with a rather low credit rating.4
2 For the reasons mentioned, also banks have a clear preference for collateralized inter-bank operations, and impose
strict limits on any unsecured lending.
3 For a general modelling of the role of collateral in financial markets see Bester (1987).
4 Some central banks, including the US Federal Reserve System, conduct their open market operations only with a
limited number of counterparties. However, all central banks, including the Fed, offer a borrowing facility under
which they lend at a preset rate to a very wide range of banks and accept a wide set of collateral.
272
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 301 ---
 They should avoid establishing credit lines reﬂecting the creditworthiness
of different banks. A central bank can hardly stop transacting with a
counterparty because its limit would have been exhausted. Such an action
could be interpreted as a proof of deterioration of that counterparty’s
credit quality, resulting in its inability to get liquidity from the market,
with potential negative ﬁnancial stability consequences.
 To reﬂect the different degrees of counterparty risk in unsecured lending,
banks charge different interest rates. By contrast, central banks have to
apply uniform policy rates and thus cannot compensate the different
degree of risk.
In analysing central bank collateral frameworks, this chapter, and in par-
ticular Section 3, will take a broader perspective than the rest of the book, as
it will not only take a risk management perspective but also an economic
perspective. The principle that all temporary reﬁnancing operations need to
be secured with collateral implies that these operations have two legs: one in
central bank deposits (liquidity) and the other in collateral. The liquidity leg
obviously has a decisive impact on the market for deposits: indeed, the
implementation of monetary policy, consisting in achieving and main-
taining a given level of interest rate, is based on this impact. It is less
recognized, instead, that the collateral leg also has an inﬂuence on the
market for the underlying asset. This effect is less important, but it is
surprising how little it has been researched, also considering that central
banks face some important choices in the speciﬁcation of their collateral
framework. In addition to the description of collateral frameworks in some
technical documentation (see ECB 2006b for the case of the Eurosystem),
there is, to our knowledge, only one comprehensive and analytical study on
central bank collateral, namely the one the Federal Reserve System pub-
lished in 2002 (Federal Reserve System 2002). Section 3 of this chapter aims
to help ﬁll this gap, also following the critical analyses of Fels (‘Markets can
punish Europe’s ﬁscal sinners’, Financial Times April 1, 2005), and Buiter
and Sibert (2005).
The setting-up of a central bank’s collateral framework may be sum-
marized in ﬁve phases, which are also reﬂected in the organization of the
sections in this chapter as well as in the other chapters on monetary policy
operations in this book:
1. First, a list of all asset types that could be eligible as collateral in central
bank credit operations has to be established. The assets in the list will
have different risk characteristics, which implies that different risk
mitigation measures are needed to deal with them.
273
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 302 ---
2. The speciﬁc aim of risk mitigation measures is to bring the risks that are
associated with the different types of assets to the same level, namely the
level that the central bank is ready to accept.5 Risk mitigation measures
are costly and, since they have to be differentiated across asset types, their
costs will also differ. The same applies to handling costs: some types of
collateral will be more costly to handle than others. Thus, the fact that
risk mitigation measures can reduce residual risks for a given asset to the
desired, very low level is, of course, not sufﬁcient to conclude that such
asset should be made eligible. This also requires the risk mitigation
measures and the general handling of such a type of collateral to be cost-
effective, as addressed in the next two steps.
3. The potential collateral types should be ranked in increasing order of
cost.
4. The central bank has to choose a cut-off line in the ranked assets on the
basis of a comprehensive cost–beneﬁt analysis, matching the demand for
collateral with its increasing marginal cost.
5. Finally, the central bank has to monitor how the counterparties use the
opportunities provided by the framework, in particular which collateral
they use and how much concentration risk results from their choices.
The actual use by counterparties, while being very difﬁcult to anticipate,
determines the residual credit risks borne by the central bank. If actual
risks deviate much from expectations, there may be a need to revise the
framework accordingly.
The ﬁrst two and the last step are discussed in Section 2 (step 5 is also dealt
with in Chapter 10). Steps 3 and 4 are dealt with in Section 3. Section 3 also
discusses the effect of eligibility decisions on spreads between ﬁxed-income
securities. Section 4 concludes.
2. The collateral framework and efﬁcient risk mitigation
This section illustrates how the collateral framework can protect the central
bank, up to the desired level, against credit risk. Any central bank, like any
commercial bank, has to specify its collateral and risk mitigation frame-
work. Central banks have somewhat more room to impose their preferred
speciﬁcations, while commercial banks have to follow market conventions
to a larger extent. Section 2.1 discusses the desirable characteristics of
5 See also Cossin et al. (2003).
274
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 303 ---
eligible collateral, Section 2.2 looks at risk mitigation techniques, the spe-
ciﬁcation of which may be different from asset type to asset type, and ﬁnally
Section 2.3 stresses that the actual functioning of the collateral framework
has to be checked against expectations.
2.1 Desirable characteristics of eligible collateral
There are a number of properties that assets should have to be suitable as
collateral. Some, but not all, relate to the risks associated with the asset.
2.1.1 Legal certainty
There should be legal certainty about the transfer of the collateral to the
central bank and the central bank’s ability to liquidate the assets in case of a
counterparty default. Any legal doubts in this regard should be removed
before an asset is accepted as eligible.
2.1.2 Credit quality and easy availability of credit assessment
To minimize potential losses, the probability of a joint default of the
counterparty and of the collateral issuer should be extremely limited. For
this, both a limited correlation of default between the collateral issuer and
the counterparty and a very small probability of default of the collateral
issuer are important. To limit the correlation of default between the
counterparty and the collateral issuer, central banks (and banks in the inter-
bank market) normally forbid ‘close links’ between the counterparty and the
collateral issuer. The ECB assumes the existence of ‘close links’ when the
counterparty (issuer) owns at least 20 per cent of the capital of the issuer
(counterparty), or when a third party owns the majority of the capital of
both the issuer and the counterparty (see ECB 2006b). Ensuring a limited
probability of default requires a credit assessment. For most marketable
assets, a credit assessment is publicly available from rating agencies. For
other assets (e.g. loans from banks to corporations), the central bank may
have to undertake its own credit assessment, or require the counterparty to
obtain such an assessment from a third party or provide its own assessment,
when this is judged to be of adequate quality. Central banks typically set a
minimum credit quality threshold. In the case of the ECB, this has been set
to an A – rating by at least one of the three international rating agencies for
rated issuers, and a corresponding 10 basis point probability of default for
other debtors. The setting of a minimum rating is also standard in the inter-
bank use of collateral, and in particular in triparty repurchase arrangements,
275
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 304 ---
in which systematic eligibility criteria need to be deﬁned. The need to deﬁne
a rating threshold is particularly acute in the case of the ECB, which accepts
bonds from a plurality of governments and also a wide variety of private
paper. Obviously, a trade-off exists between the credit quality threshold and
the amount of collateral available.
2.1.3 Easy pricing and liquidity
Preferably, assets should be easy to price and liquid so that, in case of
counterparty default, they can be sold off quickly at prevailing prices,
especially in case of troubled conditions in ﬁnancial markets.
2.1.4 Handling costs
Handling costs should be limited: while some collateral, such as standard
bonds, can be easily transferred through an efﬁcient securities settlement
system, other types of collateral may require manual handling or the setting-
up of speciﬁc IT applications.6
2.1.5 Available amounts and prospective use
The amounts available of an asset type and its actual (or prospective) use as
collateral are important to determine whether it is worth investing the
resources required for its inclusion in the list of collateral (in terms of
acquiring the needed expertise, ﬁnancial and legal analysis, data collection,
setting up / adapting IT systems, maintenance, etc.).
The asset class which ranks highest on the basis of these criteria is nor-
mally central government debt: this has a credit rating and generally a
relatively high one, is highly liquid, easily handled and abundant. Also
marketable, private and rated debt instruments, in particular if they have a
standard structure and are abundantly available, are rather attractive. In the
euro area, Pfandbriefe and other bullet bonds of banks, as well as local
government debt and corporate bonds, have these characteristics. Asset-
backed securities (ABSs) or collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) also
normally have ratings, but tend to have special characteristics and are often
less liquid. Non-marketable assets, such as bills of exchange or bank loans,
rarely have credit ratings and may have higher handling costs. Finally,
commodities or real estate could also be considered as eligible collateral, as
they were in the past. However, the handling costs of such assets tend to be
6 E.g. according to the Federal Reserve System (2002, 3–80): ‘Securities (now most commonly in book-entry form) are
very cost effective to manage as collateral; loans are more costly to manage because they are non-marketable.’
276
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 305 ---
very high (see e.g. Reichsbank 1910) and there is, to our knowledge, no
industrial country’s central bank that currently accepts them.
The Eurosystem eligibility criteria are described in detail in ECB 2006b.
The actual use of collateral in Eurosystem credit operations is described for
instance in ECB (2007a, 8) – see also Chapter 10.
2.2 Risk mitigation techniques – the Eurosystem approach
Different potential collateral types imply, before the application of risk
mitigation measures, differing degrees of risk for the central bank. For
instance, a reﬁnancing operation is, everything else equal, riskier if the
counterparty submits as collateral an illiquid corporate bond rather than a
government security. Similarly, in case of counterparty default, it is more
likely that the central bank would realize a loss when liquidating an ABS,
relative to a government security. Section 3.1 presents very brieﬂy the
principles applied by the Eurosystem in setting risk mitigation measures
(more details on this are provided in Chapters 8 and 9), while Section 3.2
brieﬂy deals with inter-bank standards for collateral eligibility and risk
mitigation techniques.
The central bank cannot (and should not) protect itself 100 per cent from
risks, since some extremely unlikely events may always lead to a loss (e.g. the
sudden simultaneous defaults of both the counterparty and the issuer of
the asset provided as collateral). Therefore, some optimal risk tolerance of
the central bank needs to be deﬁned and adequate mitigation measures
should reduce risk to the corresponding level. Since the risk associated with
collateralized operations depends, before the application of credit risk
mitigation measures, on the type of collateral used, the risk mitigation
measures will need to be differentiated according to the collateral type to
ensure compliance with the deﬁned risk tolerance of the central bank.
The following risk mitigation measures are typically used in collateralized
lending operations.
 Valuation and margin calls: collateral needs to be valued accurately to
ensure that the amount of liquidity provided to the counterparty does
not exceed the collateral value. As asset prices ﬂuctuate over time,
collateral needs to be revalued regularly, and new collateral needs to be
called in whenever a certain trigger level is reached. In a world without
monitoring and handling costs, collateral valuation could be done on a
real-time basis, and the trigger level for margin calls would at the limit be
zero. In practice, costs create a trade-off. The Eurosystem, in line with
277
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 306 ---
market practice, values collateral daily and has set an symmetric trigger
level of 0.5 per cent, i.e. when the collateral value, after haircuts (see
below), falls below 99.5 per cent of the cash leg, a margin call is triggered.
 Haircuts: in case of counterparty default, the collateral needs to be sold.
This takes some time and, for less liquid markets, a sale in the shortest
possible time may have a negative impact on prices. To ensure that there
are no losses at liquidation, a certain percentage of the collateral value
needs to be deducted when accepting the collateral. This percentage
depends on the price volatility of the relevant asset and on the prospective
liquidation time. The higher the haircuts, the better the protection, but the
higher also the collateral needed for a given amount of liquidity. This
trade-off needs to be addressed by setting a certain conﬁdence level against
losses. The Eurosystem, for instance, sets haircuts to cover 99 per cent of
price changes within the assumed orderly liquidation time of the
respective asset class. Chapter 8 provides the Eurosystem haircuts for
marketable tier one assets. Haircuts increase with maturity, because so
does the volatility of asset prices. In addition, haircuts increase as liquidity
decreases.
 Limits: to avoid concentration, limits may be imposed, which can take
the following form: (i) Limits for exposures to individual counterparties
(e.g. limits to the volume of reﬁnancing provided to a single counter-
party). (ii) Limits to the use of speciﬁc collateral by single counterparties:
e.g. percentage or absolute limits per issuer or per asset type can be
imposed. For instance, counterparties could be requested to provide not
more than 20 per cent in the form of unsecured bank bonds. (iii) Limits
to the total submitted collateral from one issuer, aggregated over all
counterparties. This is the most demanding limit speciﬁcation in terms
of implementation, as it requires that the aggregate use of collateral
from any issuer is aggregated and, when testing collateral submission,
counterparties are warned if the relevant issuer is already at its limit. This
speciﬁcation is also problematic as it makes it impossible for counter-
parties to know in advance whether a given security will be usable as
collateral.
As the usage of limits always creates some implementation and monitoring
costs and constrains counterparties, it is preferable, when possible, to try to
set the other parameters of the framework to avoid the need for limits. This
is what the Eurosystem has done so far, including the application of dif-
ferent haircuts to different assets. The differentiation of haircuts should also
contribute to reduce concentration risk, avoiding that counterparties have
278
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 307 ---
incentives to provide disproportionately one particular type of collateral.
This could happen, in particular, if the central bank would set too lax risk
control measures, thereby making the use of a given collateral type too
attractive (in particular if compared to the conditions in which that asset is
used in private sector transactions).
2.3 Collateral eligibility and risk control measures in inter-bank transactions
As noted by the Basel Committee on the Global Financial System (CGFS
2001), collateral has become one of the most important and widespread risk
mitigation techniques in wholesale ﬁnancial markets. Collateral is in par-
ticular used in: (i) secured lending; (ii) to secure derivatives positions, and
(iii) for payment and settlement purposes (e.g. to create liquidity in a RTGS
system). Regular updates about the use of collateral in inter-bank markets are
provided by ISDA (International Swap and Derivatives Association) docu-
ments, like the 2006 ISDA Margin Survey. According to this survey (Table
7.1.), the total estimated collateral received and delivered in 2006 would have
had a value of USD 1,329 trillion. The collateral received by the 113 ﬁrms
responding to the survey (which are estimated to cover around 70 per cent of
the market) would have had a composition as indicated in Table 7.1.
Obviously, cash collateral is not suitable for inter-bank (or central bank)
secured lending operations, in which the purpose is just to get cash. The
Table 7.1 Shares of different types of collateral received by 113 institutions responding to the 2006
ISDA margin survey
Type of collateral
Per cent
of total
Per cent of
total non-cash
Cash
72.9%
–
Bonds – total
16.4%
66.4%
 Government securities
11.8%
47.8%
 Government agency securities
4.2%
17.0%
 Supranational bonds
0.4%
1.6%
 Covered bonds
0.0%
0.0%
Letters of credit
2.2%
8.9%
Equities
4.2%
17.0%
Metals
0.2%
0.8%
Others
1.7%
6.9%
Source: ISDA. 2006. ‘ISDA Margin Survey 2006’, Memorandum, Table 3.1.
279
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 308 ---
high share of cash collateral therefore indicates that secured lending is not
the predominant reason for collateralization. Amongst bonds, Government
securities and, to a lesser extent, Government agencies dominate. Also the
use of equities is not negligible. The 113 respondents also reported in total
109,733 collateral agreements being in place (see ISDA Marginal Survey, 9),
of which 21,889 were bilateral, i.e. created collateralization obligations for
both parties, the rest being unilateral (often reﬂecting the higher credit
quality of one of the counterparties). The most commonly used collater-
alization agreements are ISDA Credit Support Annexes, which can be
customized according to the needs of the counterparties. Furthermore, the
report notes that, in 2006, 63 per cent of all exposures created by OTC
derivatives were collateralized.
The ISDA’s Guidelines for Collateral Practitioners7 describe in detail
principles and best practices for collateralization, which are not funda-
mentally different from those applied by the Eurosystem (see above).
Table 7.2 summarizes a few advices from this document, and checks
whether or not, or in which sense, the Eurosystem practices are consistent
with these advices.
It should also be noted that haircuts in the inter-bank markets may
change over time, in particular they are increased in case of ﬁnancial market
tensions which are felt to affect the riskiness of certain asset types. For
instance Citigroup estimated that, due to the tensions in the sub-prime US
markets, haircuts applied to CDOs of ABSs have more than doubled in the
period from January to June 2007. In particular, haircuts on AAA rated
CDOs of ABSs would have increased from 2–4 per cent to 8–10 per cent, on
A rated ones from 8–15 per cent to 30 per cent and on BBB rated ones even
from 10–20 per cent to 50 per cent. (Citigroup Global Markets Ltd., Matt
King, ‘Short back and sides’, July 3, 2007). The same analysis notes that ‘the
level of haircuts varies from broker to broker: too high, and the hedge funds
will take their business elsewhere; too low, and the broker could face a nasty
loss if the fund is wound up’. Changing risks, combined with this com-
petitive pressure, thus lead to changes of haircuts across times; such
changes, however, will be more limited for the standard types of collateral
used in the inter-bank market, in particular for Government bonds. In
contrast, central banks will be careful in raising haircuts in case of ﬁnancial
tensions, as they should not add to potentially contagious dynamics, pos-
sibly leading to ﬁnancial instability.
7 International Swaps and Derivatives Association. 2007. ‘Guidelines for Collateral practitioners’, Memorandum.
280
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 309 ---
Table 7.2 Comparison of the key recommendations of ISDA Guideline for Collateral Practitioners with the
Eurosystem collateralization framework
Recommendation according to ISDA
Guidelines for Collateral Practitioners
Eurosystem approach
Importance of netting and cross-product
collateralization for efﬁciency (pp. 16–9).
Netting is normally not relevant as all exposures
are one-sided. Cross-product pooling is ensured
in a majority of countries (one collateral pool
for all types of Eurosystem credit operations
with one counterparty).
Collateral should preferably be liquid, and risk
control measures should depend on liquidity.
Liquidity can be assumed to depend on the
credit rating, currency, issue size, and pricing
frequency (pp. 19–25).
Eurosystem accepts collateral of different
liquidity, but has deﬁned haircuts which
differentiate between four liquidity categories.
Instruments with low price volatility are
preferred. Higher volatility should be reﬂected
in higher haircuts and lower concentration
limits (p. 20).
Low volatility is not an eligibility criterion
and also not relevant for any limit. However,
volatilities impact on haircuts.
A minimum credit quality should be stipulated
for bonds, such as measured e.g. by rating
agencies (p. 20).
For securities at least one A - rating by one
recognized rating agency (for credit claims an
equivalent 10 basis point probability of default).
Collateral with longer duration should have higher
haircuts due to higher price volatility (p. 20).
Maturities are mapped into price volatilities and
therefore on haircuts (see above).
Avoid negative correlation of collateral value
with exposure value (in OTC derivatives) (p. 21).
Not relevant (exposure is given by cash leg).
Avoid positive correlation between collateral
value and credit quality of the issuer (p. 21).
Not speciﬁcally addressed – with the exception
of the prohibition of close links (of a control
type). Potential weaknesses: large amounts of
unsecured bank bonds submitted (sector
correlation), Pfandbriefe and ABSs originated
by the counterparty itself.
Haircuts should be designed to cover losses
of value due to the worst expected price move
(e.g. at a 99 per cent conﬁdence level) over the
holding period, as well as costs likely to be
incurred in liquidating the assets, such as
commissions and taxes (pp. 21–5).
99 per cent conﬁdence level over holding
period, but nothing for commissions or taxes.
The holding period should span the maximum
time lapse possible between the last valuation and
possibility of a margin call, and actually being able
to liquidate collateral holding in the event of default.
Traditionally, the assumed holding period was one
month, but practice seems to have been moving
to 10 business days (p. 24).
For Government bonds, Eurosystem assumes
one week (ﬁve business days) holding period,
for the other three liquidity categories 2, 3 and 4
weeks, respectively.
281
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 310 ---
2.4 Monitoring the use of the collateral framework and related risk taking
Even if thorough analytical work underlies a given collateral framework, the
actual use of collateral and the resulting concentration of risks cannot be
fully anticipated. This is particularly important because, in practice, an
appropriate point in the ﬂexibility/precision trade-off must be chosen when
building a framework. Indeed, to remain ﬂexible, as well as simple, trans-
parent and efﬁcient, a collateral framework has to accept a certain degree of
approximation. But the degree of approximation which is thought accept-
able ex ante may appear excessive in practice, for instance because a speciﬁc
collateral type is used in a much higher proportion than anticipated.
The point can be better made with an example: the Eurosystem has deﬁned,
as mentioned above, four liquidity categories and has classiﬁed assets in these
categories on the basis of institutional criteria, as shown in Chapter 8.
Obviously liquidity also differs within these categories, as Table 7.3, which
takes bid–ask spreads as an indicator of liquidity, shows.
For instance, while government bonds are normally very liquid, euro-
denominated government bonds of e.g. Slovenia and of new EU Member
States are less so – mainly due to their small size. The Eurosystem’s clas-
siﬁcation of all government bonds under the most liquid category is thus a
simpliﬁcation. The justiﬁcation for this simpliﬁcation is that it does not
imply substantial additional risks: even if there would be larger than
expected use of such bonds, this could not create really large risks, as their
Table 7.2 (cont.)
Recommendation according to ISDA
Guidelines for Collateral Practitioners
Eurosystem approach
Low rated debt, such as that rated below
investment grade, might warrant an additional
haircut (p. 23).
Eurosystem does not accept BBB rated (i.e. still
investment grade) collateral, so no need for
additional credit haircut – see also Chapter 8
Concentration of collateral should be avoided;
maximum single issuer concentration limits are
best expressed as a percentage of the market
capitalization of the issuer. There should be
haircut implications if diversiﬁcation is
compromised (p. 26).
Not applied by Eurosystem.
Collateral and exposures should be
marked-to-market daily (p. 38).
Yes.
282
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 311 ---
maximum use is still extremely small compared to total outstanding
operations. The table also reports, for information, the ratings of the dif-
ferent bonds, revealing that the effect of ratings on bid–offer spreads is
rather small. This is another justiﬁcation (see also Chapter 8) for not
introducing credit risk related haircuts into the collateral framework, as the
value added of doing this would be more than compensated by the costs in
terms of added complication. At the end, the approximation deriving from
classifying the assets in four liquidity categories is acceptable provided that:
(i) the average liquidity of each class is correctly estimated; (ii) the het-
erogeneity within each asset class is not too high; and (iii) the prevailing
heterogeneity does not lead to severe distortions and concentration risk.
In general, the central bank, as any institution offering a collateral
framework, should monitor the actual use of collateral, not only on
aggregate, but also on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis, to determine
whether an adjustment of the framework may be needed. It should also aim
at calculating aggregate risk measures, such as a portfolio VaR ﬁgure
reﬂecting both credit and liquidity risk. A methodology for doing so is
Table 7.3 Bid–ask spreads as an indicator of liquidity for selected assets (2005 data)
Liquidity
category
Issuers (ratings in parentheses)
Liquidity indicator:
bid–ask spread
(in cent)a
1
Germany, France, the Netherlands and Spain (AAA)
0.5–1
1
Austria, Finland, Ireland (AAA)
1
1
Italy and Belgium (AA)
0.5–1
1
Portugal (AA/A)
1
1
Greece (A)
1
1
Slovenia (AA)
20
1
Non-euro area new EU Member States
(mostly A rated)
15–20
2
German La¨nder (AAA-A)
3–5
2
Agencies/supranationals and Jumbo
Pfandbriefe (mostly AAA)
3–5
3
Non-Jumbo Pfandbriefe (mostly AAA)
3–5
a Bid–offer spreads observed in normal times on ﬁve-year euro-denominated bonds in Trade
Web (when available) in basis points of prices (so-called cents or ticks). Indicative averages
for relatively small tickets (less than EUR 10 million). Bid–offer spreads very much depend
on the size of the issue and how old it is. The difference in bid–offer spreads between the
various issuers tends to increase rapidly with the traded size.
283
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 312 ---
presented and applied to the Eurosystem in detail in Chapter 10 of this
book. In practice deﬁning an efﬁcient collateral and risk mitigation
framework has to be seen as a continuous interactive process.
3. A cost–beneﬁt analysis of a central bank collateral framework
A central bank should aim at economic efﬁciency and base its decisions on
a comprehensive cost–beneﬁt analysis. In the case of the Eurosystem, this
principle is enshrined in article 2 of the ESCB/ECB Statute, which states
that ‘the ESCB shall act in accordance with the principle of an open market
economy with free competition, favouring an efﬁcient allocation of
resources’. The cost–beneﬁt analysis should start from the condition,
established in Section 2, that risk mitigation measures make the residual
risk of each collateral type equal and consistent with the risk tolerance of
the central bank. Based on this premise, the basic idea of an economic
cost–beneﬁt analysis is that all collateral types can be ranked in terms of
the cost of their use. This will in turn depend on the ﬁve characteristics
listed in Section 2.1. Somewhere on the cost schedule between the least and
the most costly collateral types, the increasing marginal cost of adding one
more collateral type will be equal to its declining marginal value. Of
course, estimating the ‘cost’ and ‘beneﬁt’ curves is challenging, and will
probably rarely be done explicitly in practice. Still, such an approach
establishes a logical framework to examine the eligibility decisions. The
next sub-section provides an example of such a framework in the context
of a simple model.
3.1 A simple model
The following model simpliﬁes drastically in one dimension, namely by
assuming homogeneity of banks, both in terms of needs for central bank
reﬁnancing and in terms of holdings of the different asset types. Even with
this simpliﬁcation, the estimation of the model appears difﬁcult. Still, it
illustrates certain aspects that might escape attention if eligibility decisions
were not dealt with in a comprehensive model. For instance, if a central
bank underestimated the handling costs of a speciﬁc asset type, and thus
overestimated its use by counterparties in central bank operations, then it
may take a socially sub-optimal decision when making it eligible.
284
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 313 ---
A = {1 . . . n}
Set of all asset types that may potentially be eligible as
collateral.
E 
 A
Set of eligible assets, as decided by the central bank.
Ineligible assets are (A\E) (i.e. set A excluding set E).
Wj
Available amount of asset j in the banking system which can
be potentially used as collateral. This is, where relevant, after
application of the relevant risk mitigation measures needed
to achieve the desired low residual risk; obviously j 2 E.
Vj
Amount of collateral j that is actually submitted to the
central bank (again, after haircuts).
D
Aggregate reﬁnancing needs of banking system vis-a`-vis the
central bank (‘liquidity needs’). Exogenously given in our
model.
Kj
Fixed cost for central bank to include asset j for one year in
the list of eligible assets.
kjVj
Total variable cost for central bank of handling asset j. The
costs include the costs of risk mitigation measures.
cjVj
Total variable cost for banks of handling asset j. Again, this
includes all handling and assessment costs. If haircuts are
high, obviously costs are increased proportionally. More-
over, this includes opportunity costs: for some collateral,
there may be use in the inter-bank repurchase market, and
the associated value is lost if the collateral is used for central
bank reﬁnancing.
When deciding which collateral to make eligible, the central bank has ﬁrst to
take note of the banking system’s reﬁnancing needs vis-a`-vis the central
bank (D) and it should in any case ensure that
X
j2E
Wj  D
ð7:1Þ
Inequality (7.1) is a precondition for a smooth monetary policy imple-
mentation. A failure of monetary policy implementation due to collateral
scarcity would generate very high social costs. For the sake of simplicity, we
assume that D is exogenous and ﬁxed; in a more general model, it could be a
stochastic variable and the constraint above would be transformed into a
conﬁdence level constraint. In addition, collateral provides utility as a buffer
against inter-bank intraday and end-of-day liquidity shocks. We assume
that one has to ‘use’ the collateral to protect against liquidity shocks, i.e. one
285
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 314 ---
has to bear the related ﬁxed and variable costs (one can imagine that
the collateral has to be pre-deposited with the central bank). For the sake of
simplicity, we also assume that, as long as sufﬁcient collateral is available,
liquidity-consuming shocks do not create costs. If however the bank runs
out of collateral, costs arise.
We look at one representative bank, which is taken to represent the entire
banking system, thus avoiding aggregation issues. Let r ¼ D þ P
j2E
Vj be
the collateral reserves of the representative bank to address liquidity shocks.
Let e be the liquidity shock with expected value zero and variance r2 and let
F be a continuous cumulative density function and f be the corresponding
symmetric density function. The costs of a liquidity shortage are p per euro.
Assume that the bank orders collateral according to variable costs in an
optimal way, such that C(r) is the continuous, monotonously increasing
and convex cost function for pre-depositing collateral with the central bank
for liquidity purposes. The risk-neutral representative bank will choose
r 2 ½0; P
i2E
Wi that minimizes expected costs G of collateral holdings and
liquidity shocks:
EðGðrÞÞ ¼ EðCðrÞ þ pmaxðr þ e; 0ÞÞ ¼
CðrÞ þ p
Z1
r
fxðx  rÞdx
0
@
1
A
ð7:2Þ
The ﬁrst-order condition of this problem is (see e.g. Freixas and Rochet
1997, 228)
@C=@r  pFðrÞ ¼ 0
ð7:3Þ
The cost function @C/@r increases in steps as r grows, since the collateral is
ordered from the cheapest to the most expensive. The function pF(r)
represents the gain from holding collateral, in terms of avoidance of costs
deriving from insufﬁcient liquidity, and is continuously decreasing in r,
starting from p/2. While the ﬁrst-order condition (7.3) reﬂects the optimum
from the commercial bank’s point of view, it obviously does not reﬂect the
optimum from a social point of view, as it does not include the costs borne
by the central bank. If social costs of collateral use are C(r) þ K(r), then the
ﬁrst-order condition describing the social optimum is simply
@C=@r þ @K=@r  pFðrÞ ¼ 0
ð7:4Þ
286
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 315 ---
Consider now a simple numerical example (Table 7.4) that illustrates the
decision-making problem of both the commercial and the central bank and
its welfare effects. Note that we assume, in line with actual central bank
practice, that no fees are imposed on the banking system for the posting of
collateral. Obviously, fees, like any price, would play a key role in ensuring
efﬁciency in the allocation of resources. In the example, we assume that
liquidity shocks are normally distributed and have a standard deviation of
EUR 1,000 billion and that the cost of running out of collateral in case of a
liquidity shock is ﬁve basis points in annualized terms. We also assume that
the banking system has either a zero, a EUR 1,500 billion or a EUR 3,000
billion structural reﬁnancing need towards the central bank. The ﬁrst-order
condition for the representative bank (3) is illustrated in Figure 7.1. The
intersection between the bank’s marginal costs and beneﬁts will determine
the amount of collateral posted, provided the respective collateral type is
eligible.
It can be seen from the chart that if D ¼ 0, 1,500 or 3,000, the bank (the
banking system) will post EUR 1,280, 2,340 and 3,250 billion as collateral,
respectively, moving from less to more costly collateral. In particular, where
D ¼ 3,000, it will use collateral up to type e – provided this collateral and all
the cheaper ones are eligible. How does the social optimality condition on
eligibility (equation (7.4)) compare with that of the commercial bank (7.3)?
First, the central bank should make assets eligible as collateral to respect
constraint (7.1), e.g. when D ¼ 1,500 it needs to make eligible all category
a and b assets. Beyond this, it should decide on eligibility on the basis of
a social cost–beneﬁt analysis. Considering (unlike the commercial bank
that does not internalize the central bank costs) all costs and beneﬁts,
Table 7.4 Example of parameters underlying a cost–beneﬁt analysis of collateral eligibility
Category (j)
Available
amounta (W)
Fixed costs
for central
banka (V)
Variable unitary
cost for central
bankb (k)
Variable unitary
cost for
banksb (c)
a (e.g. government securities)
1,000,000
0
0.5
0.5
b (e.g. Pfandbriefe)
1,000,000
5
0.5
0.5
c
500,000
5
1
1
d
500,000
5
1
1
e (e.g. bank loans)
500,000
20
1
2
f (e.g. commodities)
500,000
50
10
5
a in EUR billions.
b in basis points per year.
287
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 316 ---
Table 7.5 provides, for the three cases, the total costs and beneﬁts for society
of various eligibility decisions.
The highest ﬁgure in each column, highlighted in bold, indicates the
socially optimal set of eligible collateral. It is interesting that while in the
ﬁrst scenario (D ¼ 0) the social optimum allows the representative bank to
post as much collateral as it wishes, taking into account its private beneﬁts
and costs, this is not the case in the second and third scenarios (D ¼ 1,500
and 3,000 respectively). Here, the social optimum corresponds to a smaller
Table 7.5 Social welfare under different sets of eligible collateral and reﬁnancing needs of the
banking system, excluding costs and beneﬁts of the provision of collateral for reﬁnancing needs
(in EUR billions)
Eligible assets
D ¼ 0
D ¼ 1,500
D ¼ 3,000
A
30.2
Mon. pol. failure
Mon. pol. failure
a þ b
42.8
45.0
Mon. pol. failure
a þ b þ c
37.8
15.2
Mon. pol. failure
a þ b þ c þ d
32.8
10.2
0
a þ b þ c þ d þ e
12.8
9.8
40.0
a þ b þ c þ d þ e þ f
37.2
59.8
89.0
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
0
180
360
540
720
900
1080
1260
1440
1620
1800
1980
2160
2340
2520
2700
2880
3060
3240
3420
3600
3780
3960
Collateral posted (billions of EUR)
Marginal value and cost of collateral
Marginal costs to banks
Marginal value if D is 0
Marginal value  if D is 1500
Marginal value if D is 3000
Figure 7.1.
Marginal costs and beneﬁts for banks of posting collateral with the central bank, assuming structural
reﬁnancing needs of zero, EUR 1,500 billion and EUR 3,000 billion.
288
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 317 ---
set of collateral than the one that commercial banks would prefer. The result
is not surprising since the costs for the central bank enter into the social
optimum but are ignored by the representative bank. Of course, the result
also depends on the absence of fees, which could make social and private
optima coincide.
When interpreting this model, it should be borne in mind that the model
is simplistic and ignores various effects relevant in practice. Most import-
antly, the heterogeneity of banks in terms of collateral holdings, reﬁnancing
needs and vulnerability to liquidity shocks makes a big difference, also for
the welfare analysis. As the marginal utility of collateral should be a
decreasing function of the amount of collateral available, not only at the
level of the aggregate banking system but also for individual banks, the
heterogeneity of banks implies that the actual total social value of collateral
eligibility will be higher than the aggregate represented in the model.8
Another notable simpliﬁcation is the assumption that the value of the
collateral’s liquidity service is constant over time. This will instead vary, and
peak in the case of a ﬁnancial crisis. This should be taken into account by
the central bank when doing its cost–beneﬁt analysis.
It is interesting to consider, within the example provided, the effects of
eligibility choices on the spreads between different assets. Let us concentrate
on the case where reﬁnancing needs are 1,500 and the central bank has
chosen the socially optimal set of eligible collateral, which is a þ b. The
representative bank will use the full amount of available collateral (2,000)
and there is a ‘rent’, i.e. marginal value of owning collateral of type a or b of
around 1 basis point, equal to the marginal value for this amount minus the
marginal cost (the gross marginal value being pF(r/r) ¼ 1.5, for p ¼ 5
basis points, r ¼ 2,000 – D ¼ 500 and r ¼ 1,000). Therefore, assuming that
the ineligible asset c would be equal in every other respect to a and b, it
should trade at a yield of 1 basis point above these assets. Now assume that
the central bank deviates from the social optimum and also makes c eligible.
The representative bank will increase its use of collateral to its private
optimum of 2,340 and the marginal rent disappears, as private marginal
cost and marginal beneﬁt are now equalized for that amount. At the same
time, the equilibrium spread between c and a/b is now only 0.5 basis point,
8 This is because if the utility of having collateral is for all banks a falling and convex function, then the average utility
of collateral across heterogeneous banks is always higher than the utility of the average collateral holdings of banks
(a bit like Jensen’s inequality for concave utility functions). One could aim at numerically getting some idea of the
difference this makes, depending on assumptions that would somehow reflect anecdotal evidence, but this would go
beyond the scope of this chapter.
289
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 318 ---
since this is the difference in the cost of using these assets as collateral. What
now are the spreads of these three assets relative to asset d? Before making
c eligible, these were 1, 1 and 0 for a, b and c, respectively. After making
c eligible, these are 0.5, 0.5 and 0, respectively, i.e. the spread between
c and d remains zero, and the spread between a/b and d has narrowed down
to the cost difference between the different assets. The increased ‘supply of
eligibility’ from the central bank reduces the ‘rent’ given by the eligibility
premium. This shows how careful one has to be when making general
statements about a constant eligibility premium.
Within this numerical model, further cases may be examined. If, for D ¼
1,500, in addition to a, b and c, d is also made eligible, which represents a
further deviation from the social optimum due to the implied ﬁxed costs for
society, nothing changes in terms of spreads, and the amount of collateral
used does not change either. The same obviously holds when asset classes e
and n are added. In the case D ¼ 3,000, the social optimum is, following
Table 7.5, to make assets a, b, c and d eligible. Very similar effects to the
previous case can be observed. The rent for banks of having collateral of
types a and b is now two basis points, and the rent of owning collateral of
types c and d is, due to the higher costs, 1.5 basis points. Therefore, the
spread between the two groups of assets is again 0.5 basis point. The spread
between assets of type a or b and the ineligible assets of types e and f is 2
basis points. After making e eligible, the spreads between e and all other
eligible asset classes do not change (because at the margin, having e is still
without special value). However, due to the increased availability of col-
lateral, the spreads against asset category f shrink by 0.5 basis point.
Finally, an alternative interpretation of the model, in which the variable
costs of using the assets as collateral also include opportunity cost, is of
interest and could be elaborated upon further in future research. Indeed, it
could be argued that ﬁnancial assets can, to a varying extent, be used as
collateral in inter-bank operations, as an alternative to the use in central
bank operations. Using assets as central bank collateral thus creates
opportunity costs, which are high for e.g. government bonds, and low for
less liquid assets, such as ABSs and bank loans, as these are normally not
used as collateral in inter-bank markets. Therefore, the order in which banks
would rank eligible assets according to their overall costs could be different
from a ranking based only on handling and credit assessment costs, as
implied above. According to this different ranking, for instance, bank loans
may be ‘cheaper’ for banks to use than government bonds. While this
underlines that the model above is a considerable simpliﬁcation and should
290
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 319 ---
be considered only as a ﬁrst conceptual step towards a comprehensive
theoretical framework, it also shows that the model can be extended to
encompass different assumptions.
3.2 Empirical estimates of the effect of eligibility on yield: normal times
In the previous section, a simple model was presented to provide a
framework for the decision of the central bank to make different types of
asset eligible and to look at the interest rate differential between eligible and
ineligible assets, dubbed the ‘eligibility premium’. In this section, we seek
empirical indications of the possible size of this premium. As argued above,
eligibility as central bank collateral should make, everything else equal, one
asset more attractive and thus increase its price and lower its yield.9 The
additional attractiveness results from the fact that the asset can provide a
liquidity service, which has a positive value. The eligibility premium
depends on conditions which may change over time. As was seen in the
model presented above, the ﬁrst time-varying condition is the overall
scarcity of collateral: if the banking system has a liquidity surplus and the
need for collateral for payment system operations is limited, or if there is
ample government debt outstanding, then declaring an additional asset
eligible will have no measurable effect on prices, as that asset would anyway
not be used to a signiﬁcant extent. If, in contrast, the need for central bank
collateral is high, and the amounts of eligible collateral are limited, then the
price effects of declaring one asset type eligible will be substantial. Similarly,
the relative amount of the collateral assets newly made eligible also matters,
as it also changes the overall availability of collateral and therefore its value.
Thus, the price of the eligible asset A should be affected more strongly by
the decision to make asset B eligible, if asset B is in abundant supply.
Moreover, the eligibility premium will change in case of ﬁnancial tensions,
shifting the demand curve for collateral to the right. This was illustrated
during the global 2007 ‘sub-prime’ turmoil, as discussed in Section 3.3. In
the following, four different approaches to quantifying the eligibility pre-
mium are presented. The values of two of these measures during times of
market turmoil are then considered in Section 3.3.
9 This effect should only be relevant if the asset will effectively be used as collateral under the chosen risk control
measures and handling solutions. If, for instance, the handling solution is extremely inconvenient, or if the haircuts
applied to the asset are extremely high, eligibility may not lead to practical use of the asset as collateral and would
therefore be hardly relevant in terms of eligibility premium.
291
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 320 ---
3.2.1 Measuring the effect on spreads of a change in eligibility
For the reasons mentioned above, an ideal opportunity to measure the
effects of eligibility on spreads arises when a small asset category is added
to a large eligible set. Such a case occurred recently in the Eurosystem when,
on 1 July 2005, selected euro-denominated securities from American,
Canadian, Japanese and, potentially, Swiss issuers (non-European Economic
Area – non-EEA – issuers) were added to the list of eligible assets (see the
ECB press releases of 21 February 2005 and 30 May 2005). This change
should have lowered the yield of these instruments relative to comparable
assets that were already eligible. Therefore, yields of the newly eligible assets
issued by the non-EEA issuers mentioned above were compared with
yields of a sample of assets of EEA issuers which had been eligible for a
long time.
The set of non-EEA bonds was taken from the ECB’s Eligible Assets
Database on 5 October 2005. The sample of EEA bonds used for bench-
marking was selected by taking all the corporate and credit bonds issued by
EEA entities. Bonds issued during 2005 were removed as well as bonds
having a residual maturity of less than one year since bonds near maturity
tend to have a volatile option-adjusted spread. A number of bonds with
extreme spread volatility were also removed. Finally, the EEA sample was
adjusted to match the relative rating distribution of the non-EEA bonds.
The rating classes are Bloomberg composites, i.e. averages or lowest
ratings.10 Table 7.6 shows information on the sample of bonds that were
used in the analysis.
Table 7.6 Information on the set of bonds used for the analysis
Rating
Number of
EEA bonds
Number of
non-EEA bonds
Number of
EEA issuers
Number of non-
EEA issuers
AAA
220
18
43
5
AA
348
27
63
8
A
624
50
171
14
TOTAL
1192
95
277
27
Source: ECB Eligible Assets Database.
10 The Bloomberg composite rating (COMP) is a blend of Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s ratings. If Moody’s and
Standard & Poor’s ratings are split by one step, the COMP is equivalent to the lower rating. If Moody’s and Standard &
Poor’s ratings are split by more than one step, the COMP is equivalent to the middle rating.
292
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 321 ---
Figure 7.2 shows a plot of average daily yield spreads in 2005 between
non-EEA and EEA issuers. The spread is calculated by comparing average
option-adjusted bid spreads between bonds from non-EEA and EEA issuers.
The use of option-adjusted spreads makes bonds with different maturities
and optionalities comparable. The resulting yield differential is quite vola-
tile, ranging between 0.5 and 7.5 basis points during the year. The upcoming
eligibility of bonds from non-EEA issuers was originally announced on 21
February, but the eligibility date was not yet published at that stage. The
eligibility date of 1 July was announced in a second press release, on 30 May.
Following each of these dates the spread seems to be decreasing, but, in fact,
it had already been doing so prior to the announcements. Therefore, it is
difﬁcult to attribute the changes to the Eurosystem eligibility. Overall, the
level of spreads does not seem to have changed materially from before the
original eligibility announcement to the last quarter of the year in which
the eligibility status was changed. To identify the possible source of the
changes, one may note that eighty-seven out of ninety-ﬁve non-EEA bonds
are issued by US-based companies, which suggests that the main driving
forces behind the evolution of the spread are country-speciﬁc factors.
Especially the major credit events during the second quarter of the year,
such as problems in the US auto industry, can be assumed to have caused
the widening of the spread during that period.
Non-EEA bonds
become eligible
Eligibility date 
announced
First press release 
on non-EEA 
bonds 
becoming 
eligible
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Jan
2005
Feb
2005
Mar
2005
Apr
2005
May
2005
Jun
2005
Jul
2005
Aug
2005
Sep
2005
Oct
2005
Nov
2005
Dec
2005
Date
One week moving average spread (bps)
Figure 7.2.
One-week moving average spread between non-EEA and EEA issuers in 2005. The spread is
calculated by comparing average option-adjusted bid spreads between bonds from non-EEA
and EEA issuers. The option-adjusted spread for each security is downloaded from Bloomberg.
Sources: ECB Eligible Assets Database and Bloomberg.
293
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 322 ---
3.2.2 Spread between collateralized and uncollateralized inter-bank
repurchase operations
Another possible indicator for the eligibility premium is the spread between
inter-bank uncollateralized deposits and repurchase operations, which is
normally in the range of 3 to 5 basis points for the relevant maturity (see
Figure 7.3). It can be argued that a bank can have access to the cheaper
secured borrowing if it has eligible collateral. Thus, the spread between the
two kinds of borrowing corresponds to the value of having collateral eligible
for inter-bank operations. Of course, this reasoning directly holds only for
the large majority of banks (in the AA and A rating range), which can
indeed reﬁnance at close to EURIBOR rates. For the few worse-rated banks,
the eligibility premium will be higher. In addition, this measurement only
holds in normal times: in case of liquidity stress, the spreads should widen.
This is indeed what seemed to have happened in 2002, and even more in
2007, as Figure 7.3 suggests. In 2002, in particular the German banking
system was considered to be under stress, including rumours of liquidity
problems of individual banks, which led to a sort of ﬂight into collateralized
operations and the spread surpassed 10 basis points at the end of 2002. The
second half of 2007 will be dealt with in Section 3.3. A further caveat in
looking at this measure of the liquidity premium is that the set of eligible
0.00
0.50
1.00
1.50
2.00
2.50
3.00
3.50
4.00
4.50
5.00
04/03/2002
10/05/2002
15/07/2002
17/09/2002
20/11/2002
28/01/2003
02/04/2003
10/06/2003
13/08/2003
16/10/2003
19/12/2003
1/3/2004
6/5/2004
9/7/2004
13/9/2004
16/11/2004
20/1/2005
29/3/2005
1/6/2005
4/8/2005
7/10/2005
12/12/2005
16/2/2006
25/4/2006
29/6/2006
1/9/2006
6/11/2006
1/12/2007
3/19/2007
5/25/2007
7/30/2007
10/2/2007
12/5/2007
Date
Rate (%)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Spread (bps)
Eurepo 3M
Euribor 3M
Spread Eurepo-ibor
Figure 7.3.
Spread between the three-month EURIBOR and three-month EUREPO rates since the introduction of
the EUREPO in March 2002 – until end 2007.
Source: EUREPO (http://www.eurepo.org/eurepo/historical-charts.html).
294
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 323 ---
assets for standard inter-bank repurchases (‘General Collateral’11) is a sub-
set of the one eligible for operations with the Eurosystem, and central bank
and inter-bank repurchases have some other differences impairing a close
comparison between the two.
3.2.3 Securitization aimed at having more central bank collateral
Finally, according to anecdotal evidence from the euro area, a few banks
have securitized assets with the sole purpose of making them eligible as
central bank collateral. Current estimates are that such securitization would
have cost them around 3 basis points (per annum). The fact that this
phenomenon has been observed only rarely, but that more banks have assets
suitable for similar securitization, suggests that other banks are not willing
to pay the 3 basis points for obtaining eligible assets. Again, this indication
of the eligibility premium is subject to some caveats, as not all banks
may hold sufﬁcient assets suitable for securitization and since the cost of
securitization may be higher for some banks.
3.2.4 Collateral for central bank operations and for inter-bank
repurchase markets
A last remark can shed light on the speciﬁc eligibility premium that derives
from the fact that some assets are only eligible for central bank operations
but not for operations in the private repurchase markets. For this purpose,
it is interesting to jointly consider, on the one hand, the difference between
the collateral accepted in the euro area for standard inter-bank operations
(so-called General Collateral, or GC) and that eligible for Eurosystem
operations and, on the other hand, the relationship between the rates of
interest prevailing on the Eurosystem and on the GC market operations. As
regards the ﬁrst point, GC essentially includes all central government bonds
of the euro area, and partially Jumbo Pfandbriefe (e.g. for Eurex repur-
chases), while Eurosystem collateral is much wider, including many other
ﬁxed-income private instruments and some non-marketable claims.
With regard to the relationship between the interest rates prevailing on
the two types of operations, the striking fact is that they are so close, both in
level and in behaviour. Bindseil et al. (2004b) calculate, for the one-year
period starting in June 2000, the spread between weighted average rates on
short-term Eurosystem main reﬁnancing operations (MROs) and rates on
private repurchase operations. They note (page 14) that the former are even,
11 ‘General Collateral’ according to the EUREPO definition is any euro area government debt (see www.eurepo.org).
295
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 324 ---
on average, marginally lower (0.487 basis point) than the latter. This is
surprising since, as stated earlier, the set of collateral eligible for inter-bank
operations is smaller than the one for central bank operations and thus
banks should be willing to pay a higher rate of interest on the latter oper-
ations. The result of a very close relationship between the two types of rates
is conﬁrmed by more recent observations, as illustrated by a comparison of
the one week EUREPO rate with the weighted average MRO tender rate.
Again, EUREPO rates tend to exceed MRO rates, but by mostly 1 or 2 basis
points. This also reﬂects the fact that EUREPO rates are offered rates, with a
typical spread in the repurchase market of around 1–3 basis points. Overall,
one can interpret the results deriving from the comparison between the cost
of market repurchase transactions with the cost of central bank ﬁnancing as
meaning that the relevance of ‘collateral arbitrage’, i.e. using for central
bank operations the assets not eligible for inter-bank operations, is relatively
limited, otherwise competitive pressure should induce banks to offer higher
rates to get liquidity from the Eurosystem rather than in the GC market.
However, it should also be noted that a degree of collateral arbitrage can
be seen in quantities rather than in rates, as banks tend to use over-
proportionally less liquid, but highly rated, private paper, such as ABSs or
bank bonds, in the Eurosystem operations.
Interestingly, the relationship between the rates prevailing in the Euro-
system’s three-month reﬁnancing operations (LTROs), which have been
studied by Linzert et al. (2007), and those determined in three-month
private repurchase operations, such as reﬂected in EUREPO, is rather dif-
ferent from that prevailing for MROs. On average, the weighted average rate
of LTROs was 3 basis points above the corresponding EUREPO rate in the
period from March 2002 to October 2004, thus giving some evidence of
collateral eligibility effects.
In summary, all the four estimates considered above consistently indicate
that the eligibility premium deriving from the fact that one speciﬁc asset
type is eligible as collateral for Eurosystem operations is in the order of
magnitude of a few basis points. However, again, the following caveats
should be highlighted: (i) In times of ﬁnancial tensions, the eligibility
premium is likely to be much higher – as demonstrated by the summer 2007
developments, summarized in Section 3.3. (ii) For lower-rated banks (e.g.
banks with a BBB rating), the value of eligibility is likely to be signiﬁcantly
higher. (iii) The low eligibility premium in the euro area is also the result of
the ample availability of collateral. If availability were to decrease or demand
increase, the premium would increase as well.
296
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 325 ---
3.3 The eligibility premium in times of a liquidity crisis: the ‘sub-prime
turmoil’ of 2007
Section 3.2 presented a number of approaches to estimate the eligibility
premium under normal circumstances, as they prevailed most of the time
between 1999 and July 2007. This section turns to the period of ﬁnancial
turmoil whish started in August 2007, focusing on two of the measures
developed in the previous section. We do not summarize the chronology of
events of the summer 2007 turmoil, nor do we try to analyse here its origins,
only referring to Fender and Ho¨rdahl (2007), who provide an overview of
the events until 24 August 2007. We will only show that these measures of
the eligibility premium suddenly took values never seen since the intro-
duction of the euro.
Figure 7.3 shows the evolution of the three-months EURIBOR–EUREPO
spread, also for the period until mid January 2008. The swelling spread for
three months operations suggests that there was a general unwillingness to
lend at three months. Anecdotal information also indicates that actual
unsecured turnover at this maturity was very low. Thus, the better measure
for the GC eligibility premium was probably the 1-week spread, which
increased from an average level of 3.5 basis points between January and July
2007 to an average of 12.3 basis points in the period 1 August to 15 October
2007, indicating that the GC eligibility premium more than tripled (these
averages were 6.8 and 54.9 basis points for the three-months rates,
respectively).
As a second indication of a higher eligibility premium in crisis times,
Figure 7.4 shows the evolution, during the summer of 2007, of the spread
between the weighted average rate of MROs, and one week EUREPO and
EURIBOR rates, in analogy to what was shown in the last section of the
previous paragraph. As from the beginning of August, as already seen,
the spread between the EURIBOR and the EUREPO increased dramatically
and, on average the weighted average at the MRO operations was closer
to the EURIBOR than to the EUREPO rate, indicating that counter-
parties bid more aggressively in the Eurosystem operations, arguably
because they could use collateral that could not easily be used in private
repurchase transactions, evidencing a much higher value for the eligibility
premium.
Finally, Figure 7.5 shows the evolution of the weighted average rate of
LTROs during 2007 and the three-month EUREPO and EURIBOR rates.
297
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 326 ---
Until including July, weighted average LTRO rate was very close to, albeit
slightly higher (2 basis points on average) than, the EUREPO rate as seen
above. The EURIBOR, on its turn, was also close to the weighted average
LTRO but somewhat higher (on average 7 basis points). Since the beginning
of August, as seen above, the spread between EURIBOR rate and the
EUREPO has grown dramatically (on average to 64 basis points) and
the weighted average LTRO has tended to follow much more closely the
EURIBOR than the EUREPO, so much that its spread to the latter increased
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4
4.2
4.4
1/4/2007
2/4/2007
3/4/2007
4/4/2007
5/4/2007
6/4/2007
7/4/2007
8/4/2007
9/4/2007
10/4/2007
11/4/2007
12/4/2007
Date
Rate (%)
MRO weighted average
1W EURIBOR
1W EUREPO
Figure 7.4.
Evolution of MRO weighted average, 1 Week repo, and 1 Week unsecured interbank rates in 2007.
3.50
3.70
3.90
4.10
4.30
4.50
4.70
4.90
1/31/2007
2/14/2007
2/28/2007
3/14/2007
3/28/2007
4/11/2007
4/25/2007
5/9/2007
5/23/2007
6/6/2007
6/20/2007
7/4/2007
7/18/2007
8/1/2007
8/15/2007
8/29/2007
9/12/2007
9/26/2007
10/10/2007
10/24/2007
11/7/2007
11/21/2007
12/5/2007
12/19/2007
Date
Rate (%)
LTRO weighted average rate
3M EURIBOR
3M EUREPO
Figure 7.5.
Evolution of LTRO weighted average, 3M repo, and 3M unsecured interbank rates in 2007.
298
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 327 ---
to 50 basis points. This behaviour manifests, even more clearly than in the
case of the one week MRO, a very aggressive bidding by commercial banks
at Eurosystem operations, facilitated by the ability to use a much wider
range of collateral in these operations as compared with private repurchase
transactions. Indeed, it is surprising that the secured operations with the
Eurosystem are conducted at rates which are closer to those of unsecured
operations than to those prevailing in private secured operations.
Table 7.7 summarizes again all spread measures during the pre-turmoil
and turmoil period. Overall, the second half of 2007 episode shows that
indeed, eligibility premia for being acceptable collateral, either in interbank
operations or for central bank operations, soar considerably in the case of
ﬁnancial market turmoil and implied liquidity fears.
3.4 Effects of eligibility on issuance
The preceding analysis has maintained as simplifying assumption that the
amounts of securities of different types are given. However, issuance activity
should react to yield effects of eligibility decisions. First, there may be a
substitution effect, with debtors seeking to fund themselves in the cheapest
way; thus, eligible instruments should substitute, over time, ineligible
instruments. Second, agents may decide to issue, in the aggregate, more debt
since the lower the ﬁnancing costs, the greater the willingness to issue debt
should be. While the substitution effect could, at least in theory, be sig-
niﬁcant even for an eligibility premium of only a few basis points, the second
effect would require more substantial yields differentials to be relevant. Here,
it sufﬁces to note that the assumption (maintained so far) of a zero elasticity
of issuance to yield changes caused by eligibility decisions biases any estimate
of the eligibility premium to the upside, particularly in the long term. In the
Table 7.7 Spreads containing information on the GC and Eurosystem collateral eligibility
premia – before and during the 2007 turmoil
EURIBOR minus EUREPO
EURIBOR minus OMOa
1 week
3 months
1 week
3 months
Jan – July 2007
3
7
3
4
August – December 2007
15
67
2
11
a weighted average OMO rates. Source: ECB.
Source: ISDA. 2006. ‘ISDA Margin Survey 2006’, Memorandum, Table 3.1.
299
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 328 ---
extreme case of inﬁnite elasticity, the only consequence of a changing
eligibility premium would be on the amounts issued, not on yields.
4. Conclusions
This chapter has presented an analytical approach to the establishment of a
central bank collateral framework to protect against credit losses. A col-
lateral framework should ensure that the residual risks from credit expos-
ures (e.g. lending) are in line with the central bank credit risk tolerance. At
the same time, such a framework should remain reasonably simple. If a
central bank accepts different types of collateral, it should apply differen-
tiated risk mitigation measures, to ensure that the risk remaining after the
application of these measures complies with its risk tolerance, whatever
asset from its list of eligible collateral is used. The differentiation of risk
control measures should also help avoid that counterparties provide in a
very disproportionate way one particular type of collateral. This could
happen, in particular, if too lax risk control measures were applied to one
given asset, thus making its use as collateral too attractive, in particular if
compared to standard market practice. Once the necessary risk mitigation
measures have been deﬁned for each type of asset, the central bank can rank
each asset type according to its costs and beneﬁts and then set a cut-off
point which takes into account collateral demand.
The chapter stresses, however, that the collateral framework needs to
strike a balance between precision and ﬂexibility for counterparties in
choosing collateral. In addition, any framework needs to maintain a degree
of simplicity, which implies that it is to be seen as an approximation to a
theoretically optimal design. Its actual features have to be periodically
reviewed, and if necessary modiﬁed, in the light of experience, in particular
in the light of the actual exposures and use of the different types of collateral
and resulting concentration risks.
If the collateral framework and associated risk mitigation measures follow
the above-outlined methodology, aiming at socially optimal conﬁgurations,
one should not denote an effect on asset prices as distortion. This also
implies that market neutrality is not necessarily an objective of a central
bank collateral framework: effects on market equilibria are acceptable as far
as they move towards optimality.
The chapter concentrates on one particular effect of the Eurosystem
collateral framework on market equilibrium, namely on the ‘eligibility
300
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 329 ---
premium’, i.e. the reduction of the yield of a given asset with respect to
another asset, which is similar in all other respects but eligibility as collateral
with the central bank. First, it shows how the proposed model allows to
understand the origin and nature of the eligibility premium. Second,
it carries out an empirical analysis to get an idea of the size of such a
premium. While the size of the eligibility premium is likely to change over
time, in the case of the euro area, the broad range and large amount of
eligible collateral makes the eligibility premium small under normal cir-
cumstances. Some empirical measures, the limitations of which need to be
stressed, consistently indicate an average level of the eligibility premium not
higher than 5 basis points. However, this premium will of course be dif-
ferent for different assets and possibly also for different counterparties.
More importantly, the eligibility premium rises with an increase in the
demand for collateral, as occurring particularly in the case of a ﬁnancial
crisis, as illustrated by the ﬁnancial market turmoil during 2007. An increase
in the eligibility premium should also be observed in case the supply of
available collateral were to shrink.
Independently from the conclusion reached about the complex empirical
issue of the eligibility premium, there are good reasons why a central bank
should accept a wider range of collateral than private market participants:
First, central bank collateral serves monetary policy implementation and
payment systems, the smooth functioning of which is socially valuable.
While in the inter-bank market uncollateralized operations are always an
alternative, central banks can, for the reasons spelled out in the introduc-
tion, only lend against collateral. A scarcity of collateral, which could par-
ticularly arise in periods of ﬁnancial tensions, could have very negative
consequences and needs to be avoided, even at the price of having ‘too
much’ collateral in normal times. Second, as a consequence of the size of
central bank operations, it may be efﬁcient to set up speciﬁc handling, credit
assessment or risk mitigation structures which the private sector would ﬁnd
more costly to set up for inter-bank operations. Finally, there is no guar-
antee that the market can establish efﬁcient collateralization conventions,
since the establishment of these conventions involves positive network
externalities (see e.g. Katz and Shapiro 1985 for a general presentation of
network externality issues). Indeed, the central bank, as a large public
player, could positively inﬂuence market conventions. For instance, trade
bills became the dominant ﬁnancial instrument in the inter-bank market in
the eighteenth, nineteenth and early twentieth century in the United
Kingdom and parts of Europe (see e.g. King 1936; Reichsbank 1910)
301
Risk management and market impact of credit operations

--- Página 330 ---
because central banks accepted them for discounting. The last two points
can be summarized by noting that the central bank is likely to have a special
collateral-related ‘technology’ compared with private market participants,
either because economies of scale or because of its ability to exploit network
externalities. This in turn conﬁrms the point that it can positively impact
market equilibria, as argued above.
302
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F.

--- Página 331 ---
8
Risk mitigation measures and credit
risk assessment in central bank
policy operations
Fernando Gonza´lez and Phillipe Molitor
1. Introduction
Central banks implement monetary policy using a variety of ﬁnancial
instruments. These instruments include repurchase transactions, outright
transactions, central bank debt certiﬁcates, foreign exchange swaps and
the collection of ﬁxed-term deposits. Out of these instruments, repurchase
transactions are the most important tool used by central banks in the
conduct of monetary policy. Currently the Eurosystem alone provides
liquidity to the euro banking system through repurchase transactions with
a total outstanding value of around half a trillion euro.
Repurchase transactions, also called ‘reverse transactions’ or ‘repos’,
consist of the provision of funds against the guarantee of collateral for a
limited and pre-speciﬁed period of time. The transaction can be divided
into two legs, the cash and the collateral leg.
The cash leg is akin to a classical lending operation. The lender transfers
an amount of cash to a borrower at the initiation of a transaction. The
borrower commits to pay the cash amount lent plus a compensation (i.e.
interest) back to the lender at maturity.
By the nature of lending, any lender bears credit risk, namely the risk that
the borrower will fail to comply with its commitments to return the bor-
rowed cash and/or provide the required compensation (i.e. interest) at the
maturity of the transaction. Several tools are available to the lender to
mitigate this risk.
First, counterparty risk can be reduced by conducting operations only
with counterparties of a high credit quality, so that the probability of a
default is small. In a central banking context, the set of institutions having
access to monetary policy operations is generally speciﬁed with the goal of
303

--- Página 332 ---
guaranteeing equal treatment to ﬁnancial institutions while also ensuring
that they fulﬁl certain operational and prudential requirements.
Second, and reﬂecting the same idea, counterparty risk can also be
reduced by implementing a system of limits linking the exposure to each
counterparty to its credit quality, so that the potential loss is kept at low
levels. For central banks, however, such a system is generally incompatible
with an efﬁcient and transparent tender procedure for allotting liquidity.
Finally, counterparty risk can be mitigated by requiring the borrower to
provide adequate collateral. This approach mitigates ﬁnancial risks without
limiting the number of counterparties or interfering with the allotment
procedure. It is a common approach chosen by major central banks when
conducting repurchase operations. When combined with the appropriate
risk management tools, collateralization can reduce the overall risk to neg-
ligible levels.
The collateral leg of a repurchase transaction consists, hence, of providing
collateral amounting at least in value to the cash borrowed to the lender,
which is returned by the borrower upon receiving back the cash lent and the
compensation at maturity of the transaction.
The lender in a collateralized reverse transaction may still incur a ﬁnancial
loss. However, this would require more than one adverse event to occur at
the same time. This could happen as follows: the borrower would ﬁrst
default on his obligation to the lender, resulting in the lender taking pos-
session of the collateral. Assuming that at the time of the default the value of
the collateral covered the value of the liquidity provided through the reverse
transaction, ﬁnancial risk could arise from the following two possible
sources:
 Credit risk associated with the collateral. The issuer of the security or the
debtor of the claim accepted as collateral could also default, resulting in a
‘double default’. The probability of such a combination of defaults can be
considered negligible if eligible assets satisfy high credit quality standards
and if the lender does not accept assets issued by the borrower or entities
having close ﬁnancial links to the borrower.
 Market and liquidity risk. This would arise if the value of the collateral
fell in the period between the counterparty’s default and the realization of
the collateral. In the time between the last valuation of the collateral and
the realization of the collateral in the market, the collateral price could
decrease to the extent that only a fraction of the claim could be recovered
by the borrower. Market risk may be deﬁned in this context as the risk of
ﬁnancial loss due to a fall of the market value of collateral caused by
304
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 333 ---
exogenous factors. Liquidity risk may be deﬁned as the risk of ﬁnancial
loss arising from difﬁculties in liquidating a position quickly without this
having a negative impact on the price of the asset. Market and liquidity
risk can also be reduced considerably by following best practices in the
valuation of assets and the risk control measures applied.
The collateral leg is hence intended to mitigate the credit or default risk of
the counterparty borrowing the cash and therefore plays a crucial role in
this type of operations. In case of default of the counterparty, the collateral
taker which in the context of this book is the central bank, can sell the
collateral received and make good any loss incurred in the failed repo
transaction. When the collateral received is default-risk free, as for example
with government bonds, collateralization transforms credit risk (i.e. the risk
of default of the counterparty) into market and liquidity risk (i.e. the risk of
incurring an adverse price movement in the collateral position and the risk
of impacting the price due to the liquidation of a large position over a short
period of time).
Figure 8.1 provides a visual summary of a reverse transaction and the
risks involved.
Two main risk factors need to be considered in the risk management of
collateral underlying repo operations. First, the credit quality of the col-
lateral needs to be sufﬁciently high so as to give enough reassurance that the
Counterparty
Collateral provider
 
Central Bank
Collateral receiver
 
Asset B
Collateral  
Asset A
Cash  
Credit risk ≥ 0
Market risk > 0
Liquidity risk > 0  
 
 
 
Credit risk = 0
Market risk  = 0
Liquidity risk = 0   
 
Credit risk ≥ 0 
 
 
T=0: repurchase 
   T=τ: return 
    
   T= τ: return 
 
    T=0: repurchase 
    
     T= τ: compensation 
Figure 8.1
Risks involved in central bank repurchase transactions. T is a time indicator that is equal to zero at
the starting date and equal to s at the maturity date of the credit operation.
305
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 334 ---
collateral would not quickly deteriorate into a state of default after the
default of the counterparty. In this regard, it is also crucial that the collateral
quality would be independent from that of the counterparty (i.e. no close
links). To assess the credit quality of the collateral, central banks tend to rely
on external ratings as issued by rating agencies or internal credit quality
assessments as produced by in-house credit systems. This chapter will
review the main sources of credit quality assessments used by central banks
in the assessment of collateral and the main parameters that a central bank
needs to deﬁne in its credit assessment framework such as the minimum
credit quality threshold (e.g. a minimum rating threshold) and a per-
formance monitoring of the credit assessment sources employed. Second,
the intrinsic market risk of the collateral should be controlled. As discussed
above, in case of default of the counterparty the collateral taker will sell the
collateral. This sale is exposed to market risk or the risk of experiencing
an adverse price movement. This chapter provides a review of different
methods and practices that have been used to manage the intrinsic market
risk of collateral in such repurchase or repo agreements. In general terms,
such practices can rely on three main pillars: marking to market which helps
reduce the level of risk by revaluing more or less frequently the collateral
using market prices,1 haircuts which help reduce the level of ﬁnancial risk by
reducing the collateral value by a certain percentage and limits which help
reduce the level of collateral concentration by issuer, sector or asset class. In
this chapter we consider all of these techniques in the establishment of an
adequate central bank risk control framework. Given the central role of
haircuts in any risk control framework, we put considerable emphasis on
haircut determination.
Any risk control framework of collateral should be consistent with some
basic intuitions concerning the ﬁnancial asset risk that it is trying to miti-
gate. For example, it should support the perception that a higher hair-
cut level should be required to cover for riskier collateral. In addition, the
lower the marking-to-market frequency, the higher the haircuts need to be.
Higher haircut levels should also be required in case the time to capture the
assets in case of default of the counterparty or the time span needed before
actual liquidation of the assets in case of default of the counterparty
increases (Cossin et al. 2003, 9). Liquidity risk or the risk of incurring a loss
in the liquidation due to illiquidity of the assets should directly impact the
1 If the collateral value is below that of the loan and beyond a determined trigger level, the counterparty will be
required to provide additional collateral. If the opposite happens the amount of collateral can be decreased.
306
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 335 ---
level of haircuts. Finally, higher credit risk of the collateral received should
also produce higher haircuts.
Despite the central role of collateral in current ﬁnancial markets and in
particular central bank monetary policy operations, little academic work
exists on risk mitigation measures and risk control determination. Current
industry practice is moving towards a more systematic approach in the
derivation of haircuts by applying the Value-at-Risk approach to collateral
risks but some reliance on ad hoc rule-based methods still persists. On the
whole, despite recent advances in ﬁnancial modelling of risks, the discus-
sion among academics and practitioners on the precise framework of risk
mitigation of collateral is still in its infancy (see for example Cossin et al.
2003; ISDA 2006). This chapter should also be seen in this light; a com-
prehensive and unique way of how to mitigate risk in collateralized trans-
actions has yet to emerge. What exists now is a plethora of methods for risk
control determination that are used based on context and user sophistica-
tion. The chapter reviews some of these risk mitigation determination
methods of which some are used by the Eurosystem.
This chapter is organized as follows. Section 2 describes how central
banks could assess ﬁrst credit quality of issuers of collateral assets and the
main elements of a credit assessment framework. Section 3 discusses the
basic set-up of a central bank as a collateral taker in a repurchase transaction
where marking-to-market policy is speciﬁed. In Section 4 we discuss various
methods for haircut determination, focusing on asset classes normally used
by central banks as eligible collateral (i.e. ﬁxed-income assets), and review
how to incorporate credit risk and liquidity risk in haircuts. Section 5 brieﬂy
discusses the use of limits as a risk mitigation tool for minimizing collateral
concentration risks and Section 6 concludes.
2. Assessment of collateral credit quality
2.1 Scope and elements
To ensure that accepted collateral fulﬁls sufﬁcient credit quality standards,
central banks tend to rely on external or internal credit quality assessments.
While many central banks today rely exclusively on ratings by rating
agencies, there are also central bank internal credit quality assessment sys-
tems in operation. Historically, the latter was the standard. This section
reviews the main credit quality assessment systems at the disposal of central
307
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 336 ---
banks to assess the credit quality of collateral used in monetary policy ope-
rations. These are external credit rating agencies, in-house credit assessment
systems, counterparties’ internal rating systems and third-party credit scoring
assessment systems.
Before any credit quality assessment is taken into account, the central
bank must stipulate a minimum acceptable level of credit quality below
which collateral assets would not be accepted. Typically, this minimum level
or credit quality threshold is given in the form of a rating level as issued by
any of the major international rating agencies. For example, the minimum
threshold for credit quality could be set at a ‘single A’ credit rating.2
Expressing the minimum credit quality level in the form of a letter rating is
convenient because its meaning and information content is well understood
by market participants. However, not all collateral assets carry a rating from
one of the major rating agencies. An additional credit quality metric is
needed, especially when the central bank accepts collateral issued by a wide
set of entities not necessarily rated by the main rating agencies.
The probability of default (PD) over one year is such a metric. It
expresses the likelihood of an issuer or debtor defaulting over a speciﬁed
period of time, normally a year. Its meaning is similar to that of a rating,
which takes into account the probability of default as well as other credit
risk factors such as recovery in case of default. Both measures, ratings and
probability of default, although not entirely equivalent, are highly correl-
ated, especially for high levels of credit quality.
The Eurosystem Credit Assessment Framework (ECAF), which is the set of
standards and procedures to deﬁne credit quality of collateral used by the
Eurosystem in its monetary policy operations, uses both metrics inter-
changeably. In this respect, a ‘translation’ from ratings to probability of default
levels is required (see Coppens et al. 2007, 12). In the case of the Eurosystem,
a PD value of 0.10 per cent at a one-year horizon is considered to be equivalent
to a ‘single A’ rating, which is the minimum level of rating accepted by the
Eurosystem. These minimum levels of credit quality should be monitored
and conﬁrmed regularly by the decision-making bodies of the central bank
so as to reﬂect the risk appetite of the institution when accepting collateral.
2.1.1 Rating agencies
The core business of public rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s and Fitch is the analysis of credit quality of issuers of debt
2 This means a minimum long-term rating of A- by Fitch or Standard & Poor’s, or A3 by Moody’s.
308
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 337 ---
instruments, as regards their ability to pay back their debt to investors.
These public rating agencies, or External Credit Assessment Institutions
(ECAIs) as they are called in the Basel II capital requirements, usually play
a key role in the credit quality assessment of any central bank. The credit
assessment is summarized into different letter rating classes: Aaa to C for
Moody’s and AAA to C for Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.
Ratings issued by rating agencies should be revised and updated at regular
intervals to reﬂect changes in the credit quality of the rated obligor. Ratings
are meant to represent a long-term view, normally trying to strike a balance
between rating accuracy and rating stability. These ratings ‘through the
cycle’ can be slow to adjust. This sometimes causes a signiﬁcant mismatch
between market perceptions of credit quality, which are inherently more
focused on shorter time horizons, and that of rating agencies, which are
more longer term. In case multiple ratings exist for a single obligor it is
common prudent practice to use the second-best rating rather than the
ﬁrst-best available rating.
In addition to the more classical ratings, newer quantitative credit rating
providers such as Moody’s KMV and Kamakura have recently entered the
market with ratings based on proprietary quantitative models that can be
more directly interpreted as a probability of default. Contrary to the ratings
of classical rating agencies, these are ‘point-in-time’ ratings that do not
attempt to average out business cycle effects.
2.1.2 Central bank’s in-house credit assessment systems
It can be valuable for central banks to develop and run internally a credit
risk assessment system that caters for the different needs of a central bank in
its core business of monetary policy formulation and implementation as
well as (in countries where the central banking and supervisory function are
allocated to a single institution) supervisory tasks. Due to their privileged
institutional position, central banks might have direct access to a rich
statistical data set and factual information on local obligors that permit the
development of such an internal credit assessment system. As it is the case
for commercial banks, central banks also tend to prefer relying on an
internally developed approach for setting-up an internal credit risk assess-
ment model rather than building on models from market providers adapted
to the available dataset.
In most countries, institutional and regulatory policy considerations lead
central banks to use credit assessments in order to fulﬁl their supervisory,
regulatory or monetary policy objectives, and do not permit the disclosure
309
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 338 ---
or sharing of such credit assessment information. Box 8.1 describes the
historical background that triggered the set-up of in-house credit assess-
ment systems and the subsequent development in some Eurosystem central
banks. Box 8.2 introduces the in-house system implemented by the Bank of
Japan.
Box 8.1. Historical background in the creation of in-house credit
assessment systems in four Eurosystem central banks3
Deutsche Bundesbank
Prior to the launch of the European monetary union, the Deutsche Bundesbank’s monetary
policy instruments included a discount policy. In line with section 19 of the Bundesbank
Act, the Bundesbank purchased ‘ﬁne trade bills’ from credit institutions at its discount rate
up to a ceiling (rediscount quota) set individually for each institution. The Bundesbank
ensured that the bills submitted to it were sound by examining the solvency and ﬁnancial
standing of the parties to the bill. In the early seventies, the Bundesbank began to use
statistical tools. In the nineties, a new credit assessment system was developed, intro-
ducing qualitative information in the standardized computer-assisted evaluation. The
resulting modular credit assessment procedure builds on a discriminant analysis and a
‘fuzzy’ expert system.
Banque de France
The rating activities is one of the activities that originated from the intense business
relations between the Banque de France and companies since its creation at the start of the
nineteenth century. From the 1970s onwards, the information collection framework of
Banque de France and all the resulting functions building on it were consequently
developed and explain the importance of this business nowadays. The ‘Companies’ analysis
methodology unit’ and the ‘Companies’ Observatory unit’ are both located in the directorate
‘Companies’ of the General Secretariat. The independence and prominence of the rating
function within the Banque de France has its seeds in the multiple uses of ratings. In
addition to the usage for bank reﬁnancing purposes, credit assessments are also used for
banking supervision, bank services and economic studies.
Banco de Espan˜a
The Banco de Espan˜a started rating private paper due to the scarcity of collateral in Spain
in 1997. The scarcity of collateral in Spain was increasing as central bank Deposit Cer-
tiﬁcates were phasing out. Equities were one of the ﬁrst asset classes subject to in-house
assessment as local banks had equities in their portfolios, but also because of the liquidity
of this type of instrument. Bank loans were added in September 2000.
3 For information on the Deutsche Bundesbank in-house system see Deutsche Bundesbank (2006) and for information
on the Banque de France see Bardos et al. (2004).
310
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 339 ---
Box 8.1. (cont.)
Oesterreichische Nationalbank
The Oesterreichische Nationalbank (OeNB) started its credit assessment business after
World War 2. The main reasons leading to the development of this business area over the
years were the discount window facility, the European Recovery Program (ERP), export
promotion and the development of the banking supervision activities (especially since the
start of the discussions on the new capital adequacy framework around 1999). Additionally,
the information serving as input to the credit assessment process is used to support
economic analyses. Although historically the credit assessment function originates from the
discount facility and ERP loan business, credit assessments are now mainly used for
supervisory purposes.
Box 8.2. In-house credit assessments by the Bank of Japan4
According to its ‘Guidelines on Credit Ratings of Corporations’, Bank of Japan confers credit
ratings to corporations, excluding ﬁnancial institutions, whose head ofﬁces are located in
Japan. These evaluations are made in a comprehensive manner based on quantitative
analyses of the ﬁnancial statements of debtors and qualitative assessments of their future
proﬁtability and the soundness of their assets.
The Bank gives the credit rating, upon request of a counterpart ﬁnancial institution,
taking into consideration the following factors:
(a) Quantitative factors: Mainly ﬁnancial indicators of the corporation, including the net
worth and stability of cash-ﬂows.
(b) Qualitative factors: Proﬁtability, soundness of assets, business history, position in the
relevant industry, management policy, evaluation by ﬁnancial institutions, information
obtained through examinations of a ﬁnancial institution by the Bank, and the ratings of
the corporation by appropriate rating agencies, when available.
It also takes into account other information relevant for the assessment of the credit-
worthiness of the corporation. The credit ratings are accorded on the basis of consolidated
ﬁnancial statements, when available. In principle, the credit ratings are reviewed once a
year. However, the Bank can conduct irregular reviews, when judged necessary.
2.1.3 Counterparties’ internal ratings based (IRB) systems
Due to the fact that credit rating agencies have traditionally concentrated on
larger corporate bond issuers, the set of obligors covered by public credit
rating agencies is only a fraction of all obligors that make up a counterparty’s
credit portfolio. Important issuer categories of obligors are small- and
medium-sized enterprises. To the extent that the central bank wants to make
4 See Bank of Japan (2004).
311
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 340 ---
debt instruments issued by these types of obligors eligible, a credit assessment
system needs to be in place to assess them. Following the new capital
requirements as prescribed by Basel II, commercial banks can use their own
IRB systems to rate their credit exposures in order to obtain the necessary risk
weights for capital requirements purposes. The use of such internal models is
subject to banking supervision certiﬁcation following the procedures foreseen
under the new capital adequacy framework (Basel II) or the EU Capital
Requirements Directive (CRD)5. Central banks would normally reserve a
right to override or adjust the rating produced by the IRB system.
Box 8.3 describes the approach followed by the Federal Reserve when
accepting credit assessments issued by commercial banks to rate collateral
used in the discount window facility.
Box 8.3. The Qualiﬁed Loan Review programme
of the Federal Reserve6
The Qualiﬁed Loan Review (QLR) programme is a vehicle that allows ﬁnancially sound
depository institutions to pledge commercial loans as collateral to secure discount window
advances, and, if applicable, Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) deposits. To maximize efﬁ-
ciency of the Reserve Bank and the pledging bank, the programme relies on the com-
mercial bank’s internal credit risk rating system to ensure that only loans of high credit
quality are pledged as collateral to the discount window. Under the programme, the
Reserve Bank will accept and assign collateral values to pledged loans based on the
commercial bank’s internal rating scale rather than an individual credit assessment by
the Reserve Bank.
The discount window seeks written notiﬁcation from the commercial bank’s primary
regulator regarding eligibility to participate or remain in the QLR programme based on team
examination ﬁndings. A depository institution’s qualiﬁcation for the programme is contin-
gent upon the examiner’s review regarding ﬁnancial strength and sophistication of the
candidate’s internal credit risk rating system.
To qualify for the QLR programme, an institution must submit copies of their credit
administration procedures for evaluation. The internal loan review system must also prove
satisfactory to the institution’s primary bank supervisor in order to meet QLR qualiﬁcations.
Components of an acceptable loan review system include, but are not limited to the
following requirements: an independent loan review performed by qualiﬁed personnel at the
institution; the internal loan review function should be independent of the lending function;
the quality, effectiveness and adequacy of the loan review staff should reﬂect the size and
5 The CRD comprises Directive 2006/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of June 14, 2006 relating to
the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions (recast) (OJ L177 of June 30, 2006, page 1) and
Directive 2006/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of June 14, 2006 on the capital adequacy of
investment firms and credit institutions (recast) (OJ L177 of June 30, 2006, page 201).
6 See www.newyorkfed.org/banking/qualiﬁedloanreview.html.
312
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 341 ---
Box 8.3. (cont.)
complexity of the institution; mechanisms should be in place to inform the loan review
function of credit quality deterioration; the function should have the ability to follow-up with
prompt corrective action when unsound conditions and practices are identiﬁed.
The frequency and scope of the internal review process should be deemed adequate by
bank supervisors. Systems for the continuous surveillance of asset quality to monitor
deterioration should be in place.
2.1.4 Third-party credit rating tools
Third-party credit scoring/rating tools (RTs) refer to a credit assessment
source that consists of third-party applications which rate obligors using,
among other relevant information, audited annual accounts (i.e. balance
sheet and income statement data). Such rating tools assess the credit risk of
obligors through various statistical methods. These methods aim at esti-
mating the default probability of obligors, usually relying on accounting
ratios.7 Typically, these tools are operated by independent third-party RT
providers. As it is the case with internal rating based systems of banks, they
aim at ﬁlling the rating gap left by publicly recognized rating agencies.
Central banks need to make sure that the RT meets some minimum
quality criteria. Typical elements of controls are the assessment of rating
accuracy and methodological objectivity, coverage, availability of detailed
documentation of procedures for data collection and credit assessment
methodology. If the RT is run by a third-party provider outside the central
bank, some minimum standards also need to be imposed. In this respect,
typical control elements are the assessment on the independence of
the provider, sufﬁcient resources (i.e. economic and technical resources,
know-how and an adequate number of qualiﬁed staff), credibility (i.e. a
track record in the rating business) and internal governance, among other
factors.
2.2 The Eurosystem Credit Assessment Framework
To ensure the Eurosystem’s requirement of high credit standards for all
eligible collateral, the ECB’s Governing Council has established the so-called
Eurosystem Credit Assessment Framework (ECAF) (see ECB 2006b, 41).
The ECAF comprises the techniques and rules which establish and ensure
7 Typical examples are working capital/total assets, EBITDA/total assets, retained earnings/total assets, etc.
313
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 342 ---
the Eurosystem’s requirement of high credit standards for all eligible col-
lateral. The ECAF makes use not only of ratings from (major) external
rating agencies, but also from other credit quality assessment sources,
including the in-house credit assessment systems of national central banks,
the internal ratings-based systems of counterparties and third-party rating
tools. Table 8.1 summarizes the key elements of the Eurosystem framework
in terms of the type of credit assessment sources used, the scope of these
sources as regards the asset types covered, the rating output, the operative
output and the credit source supervision. Given the variety of credit
assessment sources it is imperative that these systems are monitored and
checked in their performance behaviour in order to maintain the principles
of comparability and accuracy. Obviously, it would not be desirable that
within such array of systems, one or more systems would stray away from
an average performance. With this aim, the ECAF contains a performance
monitoring framework.
Table 8.1 Summary of ECAF by credit assessment source in the context of the Single List
Rating
sources
Scope by
asset type
Who operates
Rating output
Supervision of
credit source
Role of
Eurosystem
Rating
Agencies
(RA)
Public sector
and corporate
issuers and their
debt instruments.
Asset-backed
securities
E.g. Moody’s,
S&P, Fitch
or any other
recognized
ECAI
Rating/
Probability of
default (PD)
of security
Rating/PD
of bank
loan debtor
National
supervisory
authority/
market
Monitoring
Counterparty
internal
rating-based
(IRB) system
Debt instruments
issued by
public sector and
non-ﬁnancial
corporate issuers
IRB certiﬁed
banks
Probability
of default
of obligor
National
supervisory
authority/
market
Monitoring
Central bank
in-house
credit-
assessment
systems (ICAS)
Non-ﬁnancial
corporate
obligors
Eurosystem
National
Central Banks
Rating/
Probability
of default
of obligor
Eurosystem/
ECB
Operation of
systems
Monitoring,
certiﬁcation
of eligibility
Third-party
rating tool
(RT)
Non-ﬁnancial
corporate
obligors
Authorized/
eligible third
party providers
Probability
of default
of obligor
Eurosystem/
ECB
Monitoring,
supervision/
certiﬁcation of
eligibility
314
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 343 ---
2.2.1 Performance monitoring framework
The ECAF performance monitoring process consists of an annual ex post
comparison of the observed default rate for the set of all eligible debtors (the
static pool) with a credit quality better or equal than the credit quality
threshold and the credit quality threshold.. It aims to ensure that the results
from credit assessments are comparable across systems and sources. The
monitoring process takes place one year after the date on which the static
pool is deﬁned (see Coppens et al. 2007).
The ﬁrst element of the process is the annual compilation by the credit
assessment system provider of a static pool of eligible debtors, i.e. a pool
consisting of all corporate and public debtors, receiving a credit assessment
from the system satisfying the following condition:
PDðannual horizonÞ 	 0:10%ðbenchmark PDÞ
All debtors fulﬁlling this condition at the beginning of the period constitute
the static pool for this period. At the end of the foreseen twelve-month
period, the realized default rate for the static pool of debtors is computed.
On an annual basis, the rating system provider has to submit to the
Eurosystem the number of eligible debtors contained in the static pool and
the number of those debtors in the static pool that defaulted in the sub-
sequent twelve-month period.
The realized default rate of the static pool of a credit assessment system
recorded over a one-year horizon serves as input to the ECAF performance
monitoring process which comprises an annual rule and a multi-period
assessment. In case of a signiﬁcant deviation between the observed default
rate of the static pool and the credit quality threshold over an annual and/or
a multi-annual period, the Eurosystem consults the rating system provider to
analyse the reasons for that deviation. This procedure may result in a cor-
rection of the credit quality threshold applicable to the system in question.8
3. Collateral valuation: marking to market
In a monetary policy operation conducted via a repurchase transaction,
there is a contract between the central bank who acts as the collateral taker
8 The Eurosystem may decide to suspend or exclude the credit assessment system in cases where no improvement in
performance is observed over a number of years. In addition, in the event of an infringement of the rules governing
the ECAF, the credit assessment system will be excluded from the ECAF.
315
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 344 ---
and the commercial bank (i.e. the counterparty), who borrows cash from
the central bank. The central bank requires the counterparty to provide a0
units of collateral, say a ﬁxed-term bond (where B(t,T) denotes the value
of one unit of the bond at time t maturing at time T) to guarantee the cash
C0 lent at the start of the contract. The central bank detracts a certain
percentage h, the haircut, from the market value of the collateral.
The time length of the repurchase transaction can be divided into K
periods, where margin calls can occur K times. The central bank can
introduce a trigger level for the margin call, i.e. as soon as the (haircut-
adjusted) value of the collateral diverges from the underlying cash value lent
by the central bank beyond this trigger level, there is a margin call to re-
establish the equivalence of value between collateral and cash lent. Typically
this trigger level is given in percentage terms of the underlying cash value.
At the end of each period k (k ¼ 1, 2, . . . , K) the central bank faces three
possible situations:
1. The adjusted collateral value taking into account the haircut is higher
than the underlying cash borrowed, i.e. Ck < ak  1B(tk,T)(1  h), where
ak  1 is the amount of collateral at the beginning of period k and the
collateral B(tk,T) is valued using closing market prices at the end of
period k. In this situation, the counterparty could demand back some of
the collateral so as to balance the relationship between cash borrowed
and collateral pledged, i.e. choose ak such that Ck ¼ akB(tk,T)(1  h). The
repo contract continues.
2. The adjusted collateral value is below the value of the underlying cash
borrowed, i.e. one has Ck > ak  1B(tk,T)(1  h). In this situation, a margin
call happens and the counterparty will be required to deposit more
collateral so as to balance the relationship, i.e. choose ak such that Ck ¼ akB
(tk,T)(1  h). If the counterparty does not default at the end of period k, it
will post the necessary extra collateral and the contract continues.
3. In case the margin call happens and the counterparty defaults it will not
be able to post the necessary extra collateral and the central bank may
have a loss equal to Ck – ak  1B(tk,T), i.e. the difference between the cash
borrowed by the counterparty and the unadjusted market value of the
collateral. The contract at this stage enters into a liquidation process. If
in this process the central bank realizes the collateral at a price lower than
Ck, it will make a loss.
Obviously, the central bank is most interested in the third situation. Given the
default of a counterparty, the central bank may be faced with a loss, especially
in one of the following two situations: (a) the mark-to-market value assigned
316
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 345 ---
to the collateral is far away from fair and market transacted prices for such
collateral, or (b) the haircut level does not offer sufﬁcient buffer for the
expected price loss in the liquidation process. The determination of haircuts
will be treated in the next section, in this section we emphasize the ﬁrst aspect:
without a good quality estimate for the value of the collateral, any efforts made
in the correct determination of haircuts could be rendered futile. Central
banks, therefore, need to pay close attention and invest sufﬁcient resources to
ensure correct valuation of the collateral received.
The valuation of marketable and liquid collateral is typically determined
by current market prices. It is important for pricing sources to be inde-
pendent and representative of actual transacted prices. Bid prices, if avail-
able, are generally preferred as they represent market prices at which it is
expected to ﬁnd buyers. If a current market price for the collateral cannot be
obtained, the last trading price is sometimes used as long as this price is not
too old: as a general rule, if the market price is older than ﬁve business days,
or if it has not moved for at least ﬁve days, this market price is no longer
deemed representative of the intrinsic fair value of the asset. Then other
valuation methods need to be used. Such alternative valuation methods
could for example rely on the pooling of indicative prices obtained from
market dealers or on a theoretical valuation, i.e. mark-to-model valuation.
Theoretical valuation is the method of choice by the Eurosystem whenever
the market price is not existent or deemed to be of insufﬁcient quality.
Whatever the method chosen (market or theoretical valuation), it is
accepted practice that the value of collateral should include accrued interest.
The frequency of valuation is also important. In effect, it should be
apparent from the description of the three different situations that could
face the central bank above, that marking to market and haircuts are close
substitutes in a collateral risk control framework, albeit not perfect. In the
extreme, haircuts could be lowered signiﬁcantly if the frequency of marking
to market were very high, with equally high frequency of collateral margin
calls. This is due to the fact that the expected liquidation price loss would be
small when the asset has been valued recently. On the contrary, if marking-
to-market frequency is low, say once every month, the haircut level should
be higher. It has to account for the higher likelihood that the price at which
the collateral is marked could be far away from transacted prices when the
central bank needs to liquidate. Current practice relies on daily valuation of
collateral valued as of close of business. As discussed earlier, the revaluation
frequency should be taken into account in the determination of haircuts
treated in the next section.
317
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 346 ---
4. Haircut determination methods
As a general principle, haircuts should protect against adverse market value
changes before the liquidation of the collateral. The fact that different assets
present different market liquidity characteristics makes it impossible to have
a unique method of haircut calculation for all assets. For example, haircuts
applied to non-marketable assets should reﬂect the risk associated with
non-marketability.9 This risk comes in the form of an opportunity cost of
possibly having to hold an asset until maturity if buyers for the asset cannot
be found. Marketable assets do not present this opportunity cost. Instead,
the risk associated with perfectly or semi-liquid assets mainly stems from
the possibility of incurring a loss if the value of the collateral decreases due
to an adverse market move before liquidation. Differences in asset charac-
teristics therefore imply a haircut determination methodology that takes
those characteristics into account. It has to be estimated either statistically
or dynamically what the collateral would be worth if the collateral taker ever
had to sell it.
The generally most accepted methodology for calculating haircuts is
based on the Value at Risk (VaR) concept. VaR can be calculated on a value
amount or percentage basis and is interpreted as the value amount or
percentage loss in value that will be equalled or exceeded on n per cent of
the time.10 It depends on the value chosen for n as well as on the time
horizon considered. This risk measure is a basic indicator of the price
volatility for any debt or equity instrument. It is the ﬁrst building block of
any haircut calculation. Figure 8.2 illustrates the main components of a
haircut calculation.11
Additional VaR adjusts the basic VaR to account for sources of risk other
than just pure market risk. These are speciﬁc risks that affect the value of
the collateral. For example, they could comprise the extra risk due to lower
rated collateral or lower liquidity characteristics. The additional types of
VaR will usually require some more speciﬁc instrument type analysis.
9 This concept of non-marketability refers to tradable assets that do not enjoy a market structure that supports their
trading. A typical non-marketable asset would be a bilateral bank loan. Bilateral bank loans can be traded or
exchanged on an over-the-counter basis. The cost of opportunity risk is equal to the difference between the yield to
maturity on the collateral and the yield that would have been realized on the roll-over of monetary policy operations
until the maturity date of the collateral.
10 For example, VaR (5%) is the loss in value that will be equalled or exceeded only 5 per cent of the time.
11 See also ISDA (2006) for a similar exposition of variables.
318
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 347 ---
The holding period should cover the maximum time period that is esti-
mated possible between the last establishment of the correct amount of col-
lateral and actually being able to liquidate the collateral in case of default. This
is depicted in Figure 8.3. The holding period consists of the so-called ‘valuation
period’, ‘grace period’ and ‘actual realization time’. The length of the holding
period is therefore based on assumptions regarding these three components.
The valuation period relates to the valuation frequency of the collateral. In a
daily valuation framework, if the default event time is t, it is assumed that the
valuation occurred at t  1 (i.e. prices refer to the closing price obtained on the
day before the default event time) and is common to all collateral types.
The grace period time is the time allocated to ﬁnd out whether the
counterparty has really defaulted or merely has operational problems to
meet its ﬁnancial obligations.12 The grace period may also encompass the
time necessary for decision makers to take the decision to capture the
collateral and the time necessary for legal services to analyse the legal
implications of such a capture. When the grace period has elapsed and it is
clear that the counterparty has defaulted and the collateral is captured, the
collateral is normally sold in the market immediately.
 
+  
Additional
VaR 
Adjust
for  
 
Holding
Period 
+  
 
Basic
VaR 
 
Additional
Margin
 
Market
volatilities  
Other risks
Time 
Add-ons 
Interest
rate  
Equity  
Credit risk  
Liquidity risk  
Liquidation
period 
Valuation
period   
Legal  risks
Currency
risk 
Figure 8.2
Basic determinants of haircut calculations.
12 The repo agreement specifies the type of default events that could trigger the capturing of the collateral. Among
those events are the failure to comply with a daily margin call or the more formal bankruptcy proceeding that a
counterparty may initiate to protect its assets. However, the triggering event may be due to operational problems in
the collateral management system of the counterparty and not because of a real default which provides some degree
of uncertainty in the ‘capture’ of the collateral guaranteeing the repo operation. Following the master repurchase
agreement, the central bank issues a ‘default notice’ to the counterparty in case of a default event, in which three
business days are given to the counterparty to rectify the event of default.
319
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 348 ---
The realization horizon refers to the time necessary to orderly liquidate
the asset. Normally the collateral would be sold immediately after default.
This would cause a market impact. To reduce the market impact of a large
sale, the collateral taker would need to sell over a longer period (i.e. x days)
in smaller quantities. This extra time to dispose the assets leads to extra
market risk and needs to be considered in the haircut calculation.
It is assumed that the market risk encountered over the longer realization
horizon can be used as a proxy for the endogenous liquidity risk associated
with the sale of a large position. Thus the realization horizon provides
a measure of the impact on liquidity due to an immediate sale of a large
position.
Traditional holding periods range from one week to one month. If the
holding period is one month and one month volatilities are used no con-
version is needed. However, if the holding period and the volatility esti-
mation refer to different periods, there is a need to adjust the volatility by
the square root of time.13
Additional margins could be added to the resulting haircut to cover for
non-market related risks, such as for example legal or operational risks.
There could be concerns about how quickly collateral could be captured
after default due to legal or operational uncertainties. In addition to non-
market related risks, cross-currency haircuts are often added when there is a
mismatch between the currency of the exposure and the currency in which
the collateral is denominated. For example, in local central bank repurchase
operations collateral could be denominated in foreign currency.14 Addi-
tional cross currency margins would typically be based on VaR calculations.
They also need to be adjusted for the holding period.
t
t + 3 
t –1  
(t + 3) + x
Realization horizon
Grace period
Valuation time
Default event
Figure 8.3
Holding period.
13 If for example, volatility is calculated on an annual basis, then the one month volatility is approximately equal to the
annual volatility times the square root of 1/12.
14 This is sometimes the case in so-called ‘emergency collateral arrangements’ between central banks in which foreign
assets are allowed as eligible collateral in cases of emergency situations in which access to domestic collateral is not
available or collateral is scarce due to a major disruptive event.
320
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 349 ---
4.1 Basic VaR-related haircuts
The basic haircut estimation is built on the concept of VaR with a given
conﬁdence level in which the holding period (or the time necessary to
orderly execute a sale) plays the key role. Let’s for example take the typical
case of a central bank receiving a debt instrument as collateral. One can
assume that the asset price change v of a debt instrument i can be approxi-
mated by applying the following expression:
mi;tþs ¼ DDy
ð8:1Þ
where D denotes the Macaulay Duration and y denotes the yield to
maturity.15 The changes of the yield to maturity are assumed to be appro-
ximately following a normal distribution. The VaR, which is the n percentile
(n can be chosen, for example n ¼ 1 per cent) of the distribution of m, is
related in the following manner to the standard deviation of changes of the
yield to maturity:
hi ¼ QDrty
ð8:2Þ
where Q is a factor associated to the nth percentile of the standard normal
distribution and r is the standard deviation associated to changes in the
yield to maturity. In our analysis we choose the signiﬁcance level n to be
1 per cent which implies that Q is equal to 2.33. Haircuts are given in
percentage points, so to translate back into prices we deﬁne the 1 per cent
worst price P0 as
P0 ¼ Pð1  hiÞ
ð8:3Þ
The probability that the value falls below this price is only 1 per cent.
The holding period enters the expression through the time reference used to
compute the standard deviation of changes in yield to maturity (e.g. one
day, one week or ten days). If the volatility estimate for changes in yields is
given in annual terms and the time to liquidation is one week, the volatility
estimate would have to be divided by the square root of ﬁfty-two (since
there are ﬁfty-two weeks in a year). In general, the standard deviation of
changes in yield over the time required to liquidate would be given by the
15 The Macaulay duration is a simplification of the total price volatility of the asset due to changes in interest rates. The
fact that the required time to sell the collateral is usually not very long makes this assumption appropriate. With
longer time horizons Macaulay duration distorts the results.
321
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 350 ---
following expression (‘holding period’ expressed in years, e.g. 1/52 if the
holding period is one week):
rholding period ¼ rannual=
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
holding period
p
ð8:4Þ
Let us look for example at a repo operation backed by a government bond
with ﬁve-year maturity. The bond pays two semi-annual coupons at 4 per
cent and the current market yield is 4.39 per cent, so the bond is quoted at a
discount. The duration of this bond is 4.58 and the yield annual volatility is
31.70 per cent. To calculate the basic VaR haircut for this risk-free ﬁve-year
bond, we need to translate the annual volatility into holding period adjusted
volatility. We assume a one-week holding period, so the annual volatility
needs to be divided by the square root of ﬁfty-two, the number of weeks in a
year, which yields an adjusted volatility of 4.4 per cent. We have now
estimated all input values needed to compute the basic VaR haircut in (8.2),
the duration, the yield to maturity of the bond, and the volatility adjusted
by the holding period. Assuming a 1 per cent signiﬁcance level, we can
proceed to compute the haircut for this bond, which turns out to be equal
to 2.06 per cent. If instead of a semi-annual coupon bond the collateral was
a ﬁve-year zero coupon bond, the haircut would be higher since the dur-
ation of the zero coupon bond equals the maturity of the bond, i.e. ﬁve
years. So for a zero coupon bond with ﬁve-year maturity the haircut would
increase to 2.25 per cent.
In case the central bank would accept equities to back the repo operation
the calculation of the basic VaR haircut would be simpler than in the case of
risk-free bonds, as we do not need to translate changes in yields into bond
prices. Assuming that equity returns follow a standard normal distribution,
the basic VaR haircut h is given by
hi ¼ Qrt
ð8:5Þ
where Q is a factor associated to the n percentile of the standard normal
distribution and r is the standard deviation associated to equity returns.
Assuming a 1 per cent signiﬁcance level n, the resulting VaR haircut estimate
would be the percentage loss in equity value that would only be exceeded
1 per cent of the time. As with bonds, we can translate from haircuts that are
given in percentage points into prices by using equation (8.3), i.e. P0 ¼ P
(1  h).
Let us assume that the annual standard deviation of an equity stock that
has been pledged as collateral is 35 per cent. With a one-week holding
322
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 351 ---
period, and a 1 per cent signiﬁcance level, the basic VaR haircut estimate
will be equal to 11.31 per cent.
4.2 Liquidity risk adjusted haircuts
The central banks in the conduct of its activities in the collateral framework
(e.g. sale of collateral after default of a counterparty) would be generally
affected by market liquidity and not by speciﬁc asset liquidity.
A liquid market is deﬁned as one in which trading is immediate, and
where large trades have little impact on current and subsequent prices or
bid–ask spreads.16,17 It refers to what in the jargon is called the ‘endogenous
liquidity risk’, the loss due to a large sale in a given liquidation time period.
Endogenous liquidity risk is mainly driven by the size of the position: the
larger the size, the greater the endogenous illiquidity. A good way to
understand the implications of the position size is to consider the rela-
tionship between the liquidation price and the total position size held. This
relationship is depicted in Figure 8.4.
If the market order to buy/sell is smaller than the volume available in the
market at the quote, then the order transacts at the quote. In this case the
market impact cost, deﬁned as the cost of immediate execution, will be half
of the bid–ask spread. In this framework, such a position only possesses
exogenous liquidity risk and no endogenous risk.18 Conversely, if the size of
the order exceeds the quote depth, the cost of market impact will be higher
than half-spread. In such a situation the difference between the market
impact and half the spread is the endogenous liquidity risk.
4.2.1 Exogenous liquidity risk
When it comes to haircut determination taking into account liquidity risks
one need to be aware of the relevant type of liquidity risk, whether
exogenous, endogenous or both, to be measured in the haircut calculation.
16 Market liquidity is distinct from the monetary or aggregate liquidity definition used in the conduct of the central
bank’s monetary policy.
17 Market liquidity can be defined over four dimensions: Immediacy, depth, width and resiliency. Immediacy refers to
the speed with which a trade of a given size at a given cost is completed. Depth refers to the maximal size of a trade
for any given bid–ask spread. Width refers to the costs of providing liquidity (i.e. bid–ask spreads). Resiliency refers
to how quickly prices revert to original (or more ‘fundamental) levels after a large transaction. The various
dimensions of liquidity interact with each other (e.g. for a given (immediate) trade, width will generally increase with
size or for a given bid–ask spread, all transaction under a given size can be executed (immediately) without price or
spread movement).
18 Exogenous illiquidity is the result of market characteristics; it is common to all market players and unaffected by the
actions of any one participant.
323
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 352 ---
We start with addressing exogenous liquidity risk. We assume a situ-
ation where the market offers high liquidity, with sufﬁcient depth at both
bid and ask quotes. Then the simplest way to incorporate exogenous
liquidity risk into an adjusted VaR-based haircut is in terms of the bid–ask
spread that is assumed to be constant. The liquidity risk adjusted hair-
cut would incorporate a liquidity cost LC in addition to the basic VaR
haircut:
LC ¼ 1
2 relative spread
ð8:6Þ
where the relative spread is equal to the actual spread divided by the mid-
point of the spread. The liquidity adjusted haircut, lh, would then be equal
to the basic VaR-calculated haircut, h, as presented above plus the liquidity
cost, LC:
lh ¼ h þ LC
ð8:7Þ
Assume for example the case of an equity haircut as in (8.5) calculated
over a one-week holding period and a signiﬁcance level n equal to 1 per cent
with an estimated annual volatility of 25 per cent and a spread of 0.20 per
Security price
Position size
Bid
Ask
Quote depth/
Endogenous
liquidity starts 
Figure 8.4
Relationship between position size and liquidation value.
324
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 353 ---
cent. The ratio of the liquidity adjusted haircut lh to the basic VaR based
haircut h is
lh
h ¼ 1 þ relative spread
2ðQrÞ
¼ 1 þ
0:02
2ð2:33 · 0:25=
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
52
p
Þ ¼ 1:049
The constant spread liquidity adjustment increases the basic haircut by
approximately 5 per cent. Following this example, it is easy to show that
the liquidity adjustment (a) increases with the spread, (b) decreases as the
signiﬁcance level decreases and (c) decreases as the holding period increases.
Out of these three results, the ﬁrst and the third correspond to what would
be expected but the second result is not.
This approach is easy to implement and requires few inputs, but the
assumption of a constant spread is highly improbable and it takes no regard
for any other liquidity factors. A more plausible approach is to assume that
the spreads are randomly distributed as suggested by Bangia et al. (1999).
Assume for example that the bid–ask spread is normally distributed:
spread  Nðlspread; r2
spreadÞ
ð8:8Þ
where lspread is the mean of the spread and r2
spread is the spread volatility.
The use of the normal distribution is entirely discretionary. Alternative
distributional assumptions could be used, for example heavy-tailed distri-
butions to take into account the well known feature of excess kurtosis in the
spread. The liquidity cost LC will then be given by
LC ¼ 1
2 ðlspread þ krspreadÞ
ð8:9Þ
where k is a parameter to be determined by for example Monte Carlo
simulation. Bangia et al. (1999) suggest that k ¼ 3 is a reasonable assump-
tion as it reﬂects the empirical fact that spreads show excess kurtosis. The
liquidity adjusted haircut lh would then be calculated as in (8.7), but with
the liquidation cost now deﬁned as in (8.9).
4.2.2 Endogenous liquidity risk
The previous two approaches assume that prices are exogenous and therefore
ignore the possibility of the market price responding to the trading of the
collateral by the central bank. In most situations, this is unreasonable, in
particular in situations in which the central bank is forced to liquidate a
325
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 354 ---
large amount of collateral, possibly from one single issue. In those cases, the
liquidity adjustment of basic haircuts needs to take into account endogenous
liquidity risk considerations rather than just exogenous ones as in the last
two approaches.
Some models have been proposed for modelling endogenous liquidity
risk by Jarrow and Subramanian (1997), Bertsimas and Lo (1998) and
Almgren and Chriss (1999). These approaches, however, typically rely on
models whose key parameters are unknown and extremely difﬁcult to gauge
due to a lack of available data. For example, in Jarrow and Subramanian
an optimal liquidation of an investment portfolio over a ﬁxed horizon is
analysed. They characterize the costs and beneﬁts of block sale vs. slow
liquidation and propose a liquidity adjustment to the standard VaR
measure. The adjustment, however, requires knowledge of the relationship
between the trade size and both the quantity discount and the execution lag.
Normally, there is no available data source for quantifying those relation-
ships, so one is forced to rely on subjective estimates.
In the framework presented in this chapter, a more practical approach is
proposed to estimate the endogenous liquidity risk. The approach is based
on the deﬁnition of the relevant liquidation horizon, which is the expected
average liquidation time needed to liquidate the position without depressing
the market price.
To calculate the required (endogenous) liquidity risk-adjusted haircuts, it
is easiest to group the varied collateral assets that are eligible by the central
bank into collateral groups. For example, the Eurosystem classiﬁes the eli-
gible collateral pool into nine groups: sovereign government debt, local
and regional government debt, Jumbo covered bonds, traditional covered
bonds, supranational debt, agency debt, bank bonds, corporate bonds and
asset backed debt (ECB 2006b). This type of classiﬁcation streamlines the
haircut schedule since haircuts are calculated for broad collateral groups
instead of individual assets.19
Once all assets eligible to be used as collateral are classiﬁed into homo-
genous groups, the liquidity risk indicators that would deﬁne the liquidity
risk proﬁle of each of these groups have to be identiﬁed. These liquidity
indicators are then combined into a so-called ‘liquidity risk score card table’
which is ultimately the piece of information needed to assign a liquidation
horizon to each of the collateral groups. The higher the liquidity risk of a
19 In the case of the ECB with over 25,000 eligible securities that can be used as collateral in its monetary policy
operations, the grouping of collateral into few broad groups greatly facilitates the calculation of haircuts.
326
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 355 ---
collateral group based on the indicators, the lower the market liquidity
quality of the group. Therefore, a higher liquidation horizon is required to
perform a sale without depressing the market price. As discussed earlier,
higher liquidation horizons mean higher haircut levels. The Eurosystem
currently uses a risk control system for its eligible collateral based on this
strategy.
The choice of liquidity risk indicators depends on the level of depth and
sophistication that the collateral taker would like to have in the measure-
ment of liquidity risk. In the case of the Eurosystem, three variables have
been identiﬁed as relevant proxies of liquidity risk: (a) yield-curve differ-
entials, (b) average issue size and (c) bid–ask spreads. All of these measures
provide a statement on exogenous liquidity risk.
A crucial assumption in the application of the strategy is that the (exo-
genous) liquidity risk priced either by the yield-curve differential, the
average issue size or the bid–ask spread is a good proxy for (endogenous)
liquidity risk. In other words, the ranking obtained by analysing the exo-
genous liquidity risk of collateral groups would be equal to the ranking that
one would obtain by looking at endogenous liquidity risk.
The three above-mentioned liquidity risk proxies will now be discussed
one by one.
4.2.3 Yield-curve differentials
Since investors do not in general buy and hold assets until maturity, less
liquid assets will trade at a discount because buyers require a compensation
for the loss of degrees of freedom about the timing of a possible future re-
sale of that asset.20 For ﬁxed-income securities, Amihud and Mendelson
(1991) formalized this concept suggesting that (exogenous) liquidity risk
can be seen as the discounted value of future transaction costs incurred by
future owners of the asset. Hence the current price of an illiquid asset can be
calculated as the price of a comparable liquid asset minus the net present
value (NPV) of future transaction costs. Within this frame of thought
Amihud and Mendelson suggest to measure liquidity by yield differentials
between liquid and illiquid bonds of the same credit quality. Naturally,
government bonds would be the benchmark of liquidity as they represent
the most liquid asset class.21 The approach for liquidity measurement is
20 The investors who use buy-and-hold strategies can profit from this and obtain additional yield pickup if they over-
represent illiquid bonds in their portfolios.
21 In the Amihud and Mendelson (1991) paper a comparison is made between U.S. bills and notes having identical
maturities.
327
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 356 ---
then based on the difference in spread between the benchmark yield curves
and the market segment yield curves with the same credit quality. The
benchmark yield curve represents the market segment with lowest liquidity
risk within each credit quality category.
Figure 8.5 illustrates this methodology.
Two distinct types of bonds are plotted (for illustrative purposes): highly
liquid bonds selling at a relative high price and low liquidity bonds selling at
a relative low price (note that the price axis in the ﬁgure is inverted). Pricing
errors occur because not all bonds sell at prices that match the implied yield
curve. These errors are illustrated in the ﬁgure as the differences between
the solid lines drawn and the individual points in the bond price scatters.
The solid lines represent the estimated (implied) yield curves valid for each
of the two groups of bonds. One curve is located around low yields and
corresponds to highly liquid bonds and another high-yield curve corres-
ponding to low liquidity bonds. The area between these two curves is the
liquidity measure used to rank the different collateral groups.
It is important that a ‘clean’ measure of liquidity risk is obtained, i.e. that
the credit-risk component of the yield differentials between collateral
groups is ﬁltered out of the results. This is done by constructing benchmark
curves deﬁned on the basis of credit rating and subsequently measuring
Yield
Maturity
(years)
1
2
………..
10
High liquid bonds 
and their prices
Lower
price
Higher
price
Lower liquidity bonds
and their prices
Lower
yield
Higher
yield
Figure 8.5
Yield-curve differentials.
328
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 357 ---
liquidity risk for each credit grade separately, within each collateral
group. The area between the estimated yield curves for each segment is used
as the quantitative measure of liquidity risk. In effect, for each group several
liquidity-risk indicators are calculated (e.g. one for each credit rating, AAA,
AA, A, . . .).
The credit-risk adjusted yield differential liquidity indicator L is obtained
in the following way:
Lc;s ¼
Zb
a
½yc;s s
ð Þ  yB s
ð Þds
ð8:10Þ
where, c ¼ [AAA, AA, A, . . .] refers to the credit rating, s refers to the
particular market segment being analysed (e.g. local and regional debt,
supranational, bank bonds, Pfandbriefe, . . .), B ¼ [AAA, AA, A, . . .] refers
to the relevant benchmark curve, [a, b] are the limits for which the integral
is calculated, y(s) is the yield curve.22 In order to obtain one yield differ-
ential liquidity indicator for each group, a volume-weighted average can be
calculated, where the w’s are intra-market volume weights:23
Ls ¼ w1Lc¼AAA;s þ w2Lc¼AA;s þ w3Lc¼A;s þ · · ·
ð8:11Þ
4.2.4 Effective supply and average issue size
The overall size of the market has a positive effect on market liquidity: the
higher the total outstanding amount of securities traded in the market, the
higher the liquidity in that market. Going deeper into the examination of
market size as a liquidity proxy variable, the maturity distribution across
the yield curve provides an additional element for liquidity assessment.
The number of original maturities employed by the issuers of the securities
in a market segment relates to the degree of fragmentation and hence to the
liquidity of the market. On the one hand, a large number of original
maturities fragment the market, because several securities with different
coupon rates and the same remaining maturity would coexist. On the other
hand, investors may not be able to ﬁnd on-the-run securities to ﬁt their
22 For example, to parameterize the yield curve needed to calculate the yield spreads a three-factor model suggested by
Nelson and Siegel (1987) could be used.
23 Liquidity scores for the defined collateral groups are calculated using numerical integration for maturities between
one and ten years.
329
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 358 ---
needs, if too few original maturities are available. In order to keep a good
balance, markets usually range from ﬁve to twelve original maturities with
an even distribution of outstanding volume across different maturities.
In addition to total outstanding volume and its balanced distribution
across different maturity buckets, average issue size is important. In general,
liquid bonds are mostly large issues. Average issue size would provide a
measure of issue size. It is also a measure of market fragmentation and
therefore indicative of market liquidity.24 In general, liquid markets are
those that commit to issue large issues, at a regular and transparent issu-
ance calendar across the main maturity buckets (say 2, 5, 10, and 20 or 30
years).25
4.2.5 Bid–ask spread
The bid–ask spread is a reﬂection of the level of trading intensity and
therefore a good proxy for liquidity risk in a broad sense. Since inventory-
control or rebalancing risks diminish as trading intensity increases, so does
the inventory-control component of the spread. The spread not only reﬂects
trading intensity, but other factors such as adverse selection, transparency
regimes, asset price volatility, dealer competition as well as other factors
inﬂuencing market making costs.26
Once the relevant indicators are computed, they are presented in a
liquidity risk score card as in Table 8.2. The objective of the score card is to
facilitate a ranking of the different collateral groups in terms of their liquidity
proﬁle. The ultimate ranking may be based also on qualitative criteria (for
example institutional elements).27
24 A related and complementary measure to average issue size is the frequency of new issues. For a given amount of
overall issuance, the average issue size and frequency of new issues will be negatively correlated. On the one hand,
when issue frequency is low, i.e. particular issues remain on-the-run for a long time, the average issue size is larger
and the degree of fragmentation is low. However, prices of on-the-run issues tend to deviate from par value, which
some investors may not like. On the other hand, when issue frequency is high, prices of on-the-run issues are close to
the par value. However, the average issue size is smaller thus the degree of market fragmentation is higher.
25 Other sources of market fragmentation affecting market liquidity are the possibility of reopening issues, the
difference between on-the-run and off-the-run issues, the profile of products (e.g. strips, hybrids, . . . ), the profile
of holders (e.g. buy and hold, non-resident, . . . ) and the institutional framework (e.g. tax conditions, accounting
treatments). These factors may provide an additional qualitative assessment if needed.
26 Bid–ask spread is seen as a superior proxy for liquidity compared to turnover ratio (or volume traded) as the latter
only reflects trading intensity and the former comprises trading intensity and other factors.
27 These factors should include considerations on the operational problems that may be encountered in the eventual
implementation and communication strategy to the banking and issuer communities on the final classification
decision. In this regard, it would be advantageous, for example, to consider liquidity groups that are homogeneous
not only in their liquidity but also in their institutional characteristics.
330
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 359 ---
4.2.6 Deﬁning liquidity categories
Once the collateral groups are ranked by examining the different liquidity
indicators and possibly other criteria of more qualitative nature, they are
mapped into liquidity classes or categories. For practical reasons, the
number of liquidity groups should be low but still sufﬁcient to guarantee
a certain level of homogeneity within liquidity groups. If the number
of liquidity groups were too small, there would be a risk of lumping
together assets with unequal liquidity proﬁles. If, on the contrary, the
number of classes were high, the risk control framework might become
unmanageable.
The analysis of the empirical quantitative results, qualitative consider-
ations and the trade-off between homogeneity of liquidity categories and
complexity of the framework lead to a decision on the optimal number of
liquidity categories. In the case of the Eurosystem collateral framework, it
was decided on four categories. The general content of these four liquidity
categories is expressed in the following manner:
 Category I: Assets with outstanding liquidity. The assets present unequi-
vocal and unambiguous top liquidity characteristics. Assets in this category
would score the highest marks in the three different liquidity measurement
tools. From an institutional point of view, the assets would in general be
issued by sovereigns.
 Category II: Assets with good liquidity. These are assets that rank second
to category I assets in the three liquidity measurement methods. The
assets are normally issued by public or semi-public entities or have
institutional features that confer them very high quality.
Table 8.2. Liquidity score card
Collateral group
Yield differential
liquidity score
Bid-ask spread
in bps.
Avg. issue size
(EUR million)
Government debt
0
5
2674
Jumbo Pfandbriefe
2.13
6
1205
Local & regional
1.35
9
150
Supranationals
2.70
20
271
Pfandbriefe
2.44
n.a.
88
Bank bonds
2.66
18
168
Corporate bonds
4.27
36
337
Source: European Central Bank. 2003. ‘Liquidity risk in the collateral framework’, internal
mimeo.
331
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 360 ---
 Category III: Assets with average liquidity. These are assets that rank
third to categories I and II in the liquidity measurement methods. The
assets are normally issued by private entities.
 Category IV: Asset with below-average liquidity. Assets included in this
category would represent a marginal share of the total outstanding
amount of eligible assets. These are assets normally issued by private entities.
The classiﬁcation of collateral assets into the different liquidity risk cate-
gories proposed in Table 8.3 does not lend itself to mechanistic translation
into a haircut level. The classiﬁcation is a reﬂection of relative liquidity and
not of absolute liquidity. Therefore, some assumptions are necessary to map
the assets in the different liquidity categories with haircut levels that
incorporate both market and liquidity risk.28
The haircut determination model applies different assumptions on the
liquidation horizon or the holding period depending on the liquidity cat-
egory considered. The market impact is higher for those assets classiﬁed in
the lower quality liquidity categories. In order to have a similar market
impact across liquidity categories, those assets in the lower liquidity cat-
egories require more time for an orderly liquidation. Such an expanded sale
period originates extra market risk. It is assumed that this extra market risk
would proxy the liquidity risk that would be experienced if the sale were
Table 8.3 Eurosystem liquidity categories for marketable assets
Category I
Category II
Category III
Category IV
Central government debt
instruments
Local and regional
government debt
instruments
Traditional covered
bank bonds
Asset-backed
securities
Debt instruments issued
by central banks
Jumbo covered bank
bonds
Credit institution debt
instruments
Agency debt
instruments
Debt instruments
issued by corporate
and other issuers
Supranational debt
instruments
Source: ECB (2006b).
28 Credit risk is not accounted for in the haircut level. The haircut levels aim at protecting against an adverse market
move and market impact due to a large sale. It is assumed for explanatory purposes that eligible assets enjoy high
credit quality standards and that therefore credit risk considerations can be disregarded in the calculation of haircuts.
Section 5 presents a method for haircut calculation when the collateral asset presents a non-negligible amount of
credit risk.
332
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 361 ---
done immediately. This time measure is the key parameter to feed the level
of haircut to be applied.
The actual liquidation horizon varies depending on the liquidity category
in which the asset is classiﬁed. For example, it can be assumed that category
I assets require 1–2 trading days, category II assets 3–5 trading days, cate-
gory III assets 7–10 trading days and category IV assets 15–20 trading days
for liquidation. The assumed liquidation horizon needs to be added to the
grace period to come up with the total holding period as depicted in Figure
8.2. The holding period is then used in the calculation of a haircut level as in
equation (8.2). In this manner, the total holding period required can be
assumed to be approximately equal to ﬁve days for category I, ten days for
category II, ﬁfteen days for category III and twenty days for category IV.
With this holding period information and an assumption on volatilities
for the different collateral classes, it is possible to compute haircut levels.
Table 8.4 presents the Eurosystem haircut schedule for ﬁxed-income eligible
collateral following the assumptions on liquidation horizons that were
described earlier for each of the four different liquidity categories identiﬁed.
4.3 Credit risk-adjusted haircuts
This section illustrates a method for incorporating credit risk in the level of
haircuts for a single bond. The basic VaR haircut that accounts for market
risk is supplemented by an additional haircut accounting for credit risk.
Table 8.4. Eurosystem levels of valuation haircuts applied to eligible marketable assets in relation to ﬁxed
coupon and zero-coupon instruments (percentages)
Liquidity categories
Residual
Category I
Category II
Category III
Category IV
maturity
(years)
ﬁxed
coupon
zero
coupon
ﬁxed
coupon
zero
coupon
ﬁxed
coupon
zero
coupon
ﬁxed
coupon
zero
coupon
0–1
0.5
0.5
1
1
1.5
1.5
2
2
1–3
1.5
1.5
2.5
2.5
3
3
3.5
3.5
3–5
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6
5–7
3
3.5
4.5
5
5.5
6
6.5
7
7–10
4
4.5
5.5
6.5
6.5
8
8
10
>10
5.5
8.5
7.5
12
9
15
12
18
Source: ECB (2006b).
333
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 362 ---
This additional haircut for credit risk can be estimated using the Credit-
Metrics methodology for calculating the credit risk for a stand-alone
exposure (Gupton et al. 1997).
Credit risk implies a potential loss in value due to both the likelihood of
default and the likelihood for possible credit quality migrations. The
CreditMetrics methodology estimates the volatility of asset value due to
both events, i.e. default and credit quality migration. This volatility estimate
is then used to calculate a VaR due to credit risk. The Value-at-Risk
methodology due to credit risk can be summarized as in Figure 8.6.
In essence, there are three steps to calculating the credit risk associated
to a bond. The ﬁrst step starts with assigning the senior unsecured bond’s
issuer to a particular credit rating. Credit events are then deﬁned by rating
migrations which include default, though a matrix of migration probabi-
lities. The second step determines the seniority of the bond which in turn
determines its recovery rate in the case of default. The forward zero curve
for each credit rating category determines the value of the bond upon up/
downgrade. In the third step the migration probabilities of step 1 and the
values obtained for the bond in step 2 are then combined to estimate the
volatility due to credit quality changes.
This process is illustrated in Table 8.5. We assume a ﬁve-year bond or
credit instrument with an initial rating of single A. Over the horizon, which
is assumed here to be one year, the rating can jump to seven new values,
including default. For each rating, the value of the instrument is recom-
puted using the forward zero curves by credit rating category. For example,
the bond value increases to 108.41 if the rating migrates to AAA, or to the
recovery value of 50 in case of default. Given the state probabilities and
associated values, we can compute an expected bond value of 107.71 and
a standard deviation of 1.36.
 
Rating Migration
likelihoods  
Credit Rating 
Seniority 
Credit Spreads 
Recovery rate in
default  
 
Present value bond
valuation  
Standard deviation of value due to credit quality changes for a single asset
Figure 8.6
Value-at-Risk due to credit risk for a single exposure.
334
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 363 ---
Given an expected bond value and a standard deviation, and assuming a
normal distribution in asset returns, we would be able to compute a haircut
based on credit risk changes.29
A critical input in the calculation of bond values in Table 8.5 is given by
the credit transition matrix that provides an estimate not only of the like-
lihood of default but also of the chance of migrating to any possible credit
quality step at the risk horizon. Two main paradigms underline the esti-
mation of credit transition matrices: the ‘through-the-cycle’ approach
representative of rating transitions as observed by the rating actions of
major international rating agencies and the ‘point-in-time’ approach
obtained from rating changes produced by Merton-type models such as
Moody’s KMV. An example of typical credit transition matrices of both
paradigms is given in Tables 8.6 and 8.7. Notice that the approach followed
by rating agencies is designed to give less variability in ratings if economic
conditions change (Catarineu-Rabell et al. 2003) whereas the approach
followed by for example Merton-based models present rating migrations
that are more volatile. The volatility in rating migrations has an important
bearing in the ﬁnal estimated volatility of the bond value due to credit
rating changes.
Another important element in the calculation of credit risk-related
haircuts refers to the uncertainty associated to the recovery rate in default.
Table 8.5 The distribution of bond values of an A rated bond
Probability (pi)
F. Bond Value Vi
Mean, l
R(piVi)
Var.r2
Rpi(Vi-l)2
AAA
0.08%
108.41
0.09
0.00
AA
2.42%
108.05
2.61
0.00
A
91.30%
107.79
98.42
0.01
BBB
5.23%
107.37
5.62
0.01
BB
0.68%
104.34
0.71
0.08
B
0.23%
101.90
0.23
0.08
C
0.01%
98.96
0.01
0.01
Default
0.05%
50.00
0.03
1.67
Variance (r2)
1.84
Mean (l)
107.71
Std. deviation
1.36
29 Standard deviation is one credit risk measure. Percentile levels can be used alternatively to obtain the risk measure.
Assuming that per cent level is the measure of choice, this is the level below which the bond value will fall with
probability 1 per cent.
335
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment
A
!
!
!

--- Página 364 ---
Recovery rates are best characterized not by the distributional mean but
rather by their consistently wide uncertainty.30 There should be a direct
relationship between this uncertainty and the estimate of volatility of price
changes due to credit risk. This uncertainty can be incorporated in the
calculation of price volatility by adjusting the variance estimate in Table 8.5
(see Gupton et al. 1997).
Finally, the selection of an appropriate time horizon is also important.
Much of the academic and credit risk analysis and credit data are stated on
an annual basis. However, we are interested in a haircut that would mitigate
the credit risk that could be experienced in the time span between the
default of the counterparty and the actual liquidation of the collateral.
Table 8.6 ‘Through-the-cycle’ credit migration matrix
From/to
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
CCC
D
AAA
90.82%
8.26%
0.74%
0.06%
0.11%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
AA
0.65%
90.88%
7.69%
0.58%
0.05%
0.13%
0.02%
0.00%
A
0.08%
2.42%
91.30%
5.23%
0.68%
0.23%
0.01%
0.05%
BBB
0.03%
0.31%
5.87%
87.46%
4.96%
1.08%
0.12%
0.17%
BB
0.02%
0.12%
0.64%
7.71%
81.16%
8.40%
0.98%
0.98%
B
0.00%
0.10%
0.24%
0.45%
6.86%
83.50%
3.92%
4.92%
CCC
0.21%
0.00%
0.41%
1.24%
2.67%
11.70%
64.48%
19.29%
Note: Typical rating agency migration over a one-year horizon.
Sources: Moody’s; Fitch; Standard & Poor’s; ECB’s own calculations.
Table 8.7 ‘Point-in-time’ credit migration matrix
From/to
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
CCC
D
AAA
66.3%
22.2%
7.4%
2.5%
0.9%
0.7%
0.1%
0.0%
AA
21.7%
43.0%
25.8%
6.6%
2.0%
0.7%
0.2%
0.0%
A
2.8%
20.3%
44.2%
22.9%
7.4%
2.0%
0.3%
0.1%
BBB
0.3%
2.8%
22.6%
42.5%
23.5%
7.0%
1.0%
0.3%
BB
0.1%
0.2%
3.7%
22.9%
44.4%
24.5%
3.4%
0.7%
B
0.0%
0.1%
0.4%
3.5%
20.5%
53.0%
20.6%
2.0%
CCC
0.0%
0.0%
0.1%
0.3%
1.8%
17.8%
69.9%
10.1%
Note: Typical Merton based rating migration over a one-year horizon.
Sources: Moody’s KMV; ECB’s own calculations.
30 In case we were unable to infer from historical data or by other means the distribution of recovery rates, we could
capture the wide uncertainty and the general shape of the recovery rate distribution by using the Beta distribution.
336
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 365 ---
As discussed earlier, this holding period would normally be below one year,
typically several weeks. The annual volatility estimate would need to be
adjusted for the relevant holding period as in equation (8.4).
Table 8.8 illustrates typical credit-risk haircut levels for a ﬁxed-income
bond with ﬁve-year maturity and different holding periods. Notice the
exponential behaviour of credit-risk haircuts, i.e. as credit quality decreases,
the haircut level increases on an exponential basis. Haircuts with different
holding periods are scaled using the square root of time as in equation (8.4).
The ultimate credit-risk haircut for a given bond does not only depend on
the degree of risk aversion of the institution measured by the conﬁdence
level of the credit VaR, but also and most crucially on the different assump-
tions taken as regards credit-risk migration, recovery rate level and associ-
ated volatility, credit spreads and holding period.
5. Limits as a risk mitigation tool
Collateral limits are the third main risk mitigation tool at the disposal of
the collateral taker. The other two are mark-to-market policy and haircut
setting. If the collateral received by the collateral taker is not well diver-
siﬁed, it may be helpful limiting the collateral exposure of the issuer, sector
or asset class to for example a maximum percentage of the total collateral
portfolio.
There are also haircut implications to consider when diversiﬁcation in
the collateral portfolio is not achieved. For example, consider the case of
a counterparty that pledges the entire issue of an asset-backed security as the
sole collateral to guarantee a repo operation with the central bank. The
average volatility assumptions used to compute haircuts for asset-backed
Table 8.8 99 per cent credit risk haircut for a ﬁve-year ﬁxed coupon bond
Holding Period (liquidation horizon)
Rating
1 week
2 weeks
3 weeks
4 weeks
AAA
0.48%
0.67%
0.83%
0.99%
AA
0.46%
0.65%
0.80%
0.95%
A
0.71%
1.00%
1.24%
1.48%
BBB
1.13%
1.59%
1.97%
2.34%
BB
1.71%
2.42%
2.99%
3.56%
B
3.66%
5.18%
6.41%
7.63%
337
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 366 ---
securities may not hold for this particular bond, so the haircut will not
cover its potential price movements. In this case, the collateral taker may
decide to supplement the haircut level with an additional margin or to limit
the collateral exposure to this bond and in effect forcing the counterparty to
provide a more ‘diversiﬁed’ collateral pool.
Collateral limit setting can vary widely depending on the sophistication
that the collateral taker would like to introduce. Ultimately, limit setting is
a management decision that needs to consider three aspects: the type of
limits, the risk measure to use and the type of action or policy that the limits
imply in case of breach.
The collateral taker may consider three main types of limits: a) limits based
on a pre-deﬁned risk measure such as applying limits based on credit quality
thresholds, for example only accepting collateral rated single A or higher,31 b)
limits based on exposure size so as to restrict collateral exposures above a
given size, and c) limits based on marginal additional risk so as to limit the
addition of a collateral to a collateral portfolio that increases portfolio risk
above a certain level. Obviously, the collateral taker could implement a limit
framework that combines these three types. Limits based on additional
marginal risk need a portfolio risk measurement system. The concept of a
portfolio risk measurement approach is appealing as it moves beyond the risk
control of individual assets and treats the portfolio of collateral as the main
subject of risk control. It is in this approach where diversiﬁcation and
interaction of collateral types can be treated in a consistent manner allowing
the risk manager to control for risk using only one tool in the palette of tools.
For example, instead of applying limits and haircuts to individual assets, a
haircut for the entire collateral portfolio could be applied taking into account
the diversiﬁcation level of the collateral pool. Such portfolio haircut would
penalize the collateral pools with little or no diversiﬁcation.
6. Conclusions
This chapter has reviewed important elements of any central bank collateral
management system: the credit quality assessment of eligible collateral and
the risk mitigation framework.
31 As regards risk measures that drive limit setting, it is important to keep in mind their application. The risk estimates
underlying limits need to provide an accurate view of the relative riskiness of the various collateral exposures.
Typical risk measures that can be used in limits include issuer rating information, credit risk induced standard
deviation, average shortfall and/or correlation.
338
Gonza´lez, F. and Molitor, P.

--- Página 367 ---
Collateral credit quality assessment is a vital part of the risk control
arsenal of the central bank. Fortunately, recent regulatory developments
have provided the possibility for the central bank to make use of additional
credit assessment systems other than public rating agencies or own in-house
credit systems. Internal rating based (IRB) systems supervised by national
supervisors following the capital requirements regime of Basel II are a
strong credit quality assessment source option. However, the possibilities of
multiple credit assessment sources also come with challenges. In particular,
central banks should lay down clear credit quality assessment frameworks,
in which comparability and accuracy of rating outputs is ensured among the
range of heterogeneous rating sources.
Risk control frameworks should be built around three main pillars: mark-
to-market collateral valuation, haircuts and limits. Mark-to-market valuation
is the ﬁrst element of such a framework. Frequent mark-to-market valuation
of collateral reduces risk. Unfortunately, not all assets, in particular those
ﬁxed debt assets that normally form part of the eligible set of central bank
collateral, have valid or representative market prices. When mark to market is
not possible, the central bank needs to resort to mark-to-model or theoretical
pricing making sure that sufﬁcient resources are allocated to this task. The
implementation of haircuts or margins to collateral is crucial as well. Col-
lateral assets vary in their risk proﬁle. Ideally, haircuts mitigate or compensate
for those additional risk factors associated to the collateral asset under
question (e.g. additional liquidity or credit risk). The chapter describes dif-
ferent methods to estimate the level of haircuts based on different market,
liquidity and credit risk proﬁles. The ultimate deﬁnition of the levels of
haircuts depends on the degree of risk aversion of the central bank. Finally,
collateral limits, the last tool in such a risk control framework, allow miti-
gating the risk of too much concentration in the collateral portfolio.
The type of risk control framework presented in this chapter relates to
individual assets or generic asset types. Future developments in the risk
control framework design would focus more on the portfolio concept,
looking at the interaction of new collateral assets in a collateral portfolio and
adjusting haircuts and limits based on the risk contribution to the portfolio.
339
Risk mitigation measures and credit risk assessment

--- Página 368 ---
9
Collateral and risk mitigation
frameworks of central bank policy
operations – a comparison across
central banks
Evangelos Tabakis and Benedict Weller
1. Introduction1
Chapter 7 has presented a theoretical approach for deducing the optimal
collateral framework of the central bank based on a cost–beneﬁt analysis.
The analysis was based on the assumption that the central bank needs to
cover exogenously determined reﬁnancing needs of the banking system
vis-a`-vis the central bank without exposing itself to risks beyond a certain
level deemed acceptable. Furthermore, the central bank will always try to do
so in the most cost-efﬁcient way. Therefore, it will rank assets that are
potentially eligible for collateral according to handling costs and the cost of
the risk mitigation tools that would be needed to reduce the risk of these
assets to the level set as acceptable by the central bank. These will then be
included in the list of eligible assets in order of increasing cost until the
aggregate outstanding volume of the eligible assets covers the corresponding
needs of the system in cash.
Applying this basic framework in different central banks that act mainly
as liquidity providers would normally lead to the implementation of col-
lateral frameworks that are similar in their core features. Indeed when
comparing the frameworks of the leading central banks, these exhibit many
similarities. At the same time important differences also exist. This is also a
result of the simplicity of the model described in Chapter 7 that does not
1 The authors are indebted to Tonu Palm, Gergely Koczan and Joao Mineiro for their input to this chapter. Any
mistakes and omissions are, of course, the sole responsibility of the authors. Parts of this chapter draw on the ECB
monthly bulletin article published in October 2007, under the title ‘The collateral frameworks of the Federal Reserve
System, the Bank of Japan and the Eurosystem’, pp. 85–100 (ECB 2007b).
340

--- Página 369 ---
fully capture the diversity of ‘liquidity needs’ in practice. These differences
between central banks can be attributed to any of the following factors:
 Amount of liquidity deﬁcit covered by collateralized lending: Generally
speaking, the higher the amounts covered by such operations, the more
extensive the range of collateral accepted would tend to be.
 Counterparty policy: The central bank may choose to establish a limited
number of counterparties or open its operations to all ﬁnancial institutions
fulﬁlling some basic criteria.
 Financial markets: Volume and liquidity in government bond and
corporate bond markets can affect the distribution of eligible assets
between private and public issuers.2
 Differentiating according to type of market operations: A central bank
could establish one list of collateral for all types of collateralized lending
but it can also differentiate its collateral framework depending on the
operations.
 Historical reasons: The cost–beneﬁt analysis of Chapter 7 does not take
into account the fact that costs are also incurred by changes in the
collateral framework so that older practices, even if no longer optimal,
may still be maintained at least for some time.
To make these differences concrete, this chapter looks at the collateral
frameworks of the three major central banks: the Federal Reserve Board
(FED), Bank of Japan (BoJ) and the European Central Bank (ECB).3 It
attempts to compare practices and, where possible, to explain the differ-
ences. Reference is made also to the collateral practices of a larger group of
central banks which have been surveyed in 2005 in the context of a central
bank risk management seminar organized by Bank of Canada.
Section 2 of this chapter introduces the main features of the collateral
frameworks in the FED, BoJ and ECB linking them to basic principles and
economic factors. Section 3 compares the concrete eligibility criteria applied
by the three central banks and Section 4 treats the risk mitigation tools
applied to collateral. Section 5 draws some general conclusions from these
comparisons.
2 The impact of the maturity of financial markets on monetary policy implementation is the focus of Laurens
(2005).
3 For a comparison of a more general scope between the monetary policy frameworks of the Eurosystem, the Federal
Reserve and Bank of Japan, not focusing on collateral, the reader is referred to Borio (1997, 2001) and Blenck et al.
(2001). Another such general comparison of the institutional framework, the monetary policy strategies and the
operational mechanisms of the ECB, the FED and the pre-euro Bundesbank is provided in Apel 2003. Finally, Bindseil
(2004) provides a general account of monetary policy implementation theory and practice.
341
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 370 ---
2. General comparison of the three collateral frameworks
2.1 Types of operations
Open market operations represent the key instrument used by all three
central banks for supplying liquidity to the banking sector. Open market
operations can be conducted on either an outright or a temporary basis.
Outright purchases result in assets being bought in the open market and
remaining on the balance sheet of the central bank, leading to a permanent
increase in banks’ holdings of central bank money. Temporary open market
operations, on the other hand, involve lending central bank money to banks
with a ﬁxed and usually short maturity. These operations allow the central
bank to manage marginal liquidity conditions in the interbank market for
overnight reserves and thus to steer very short-term money market interest
rates so as to implement monetary policy decisions.4
In addition to temporary open market operations, all three central banks
also conduct two other main types of credit operations, i.e. the borrowing
facility and intraday credit. The borrowing (Lombard) facility – known as
the marginal lending facility in the Eurosystem, the primary credit facility in
the Federal Reserve System and the complementary lending facility in the
Bank of Japan – aims to provide a safety valve for the interbank market, so
that, when the market cannot provide the necessary liquidity, a bank can
still obtain it from the central bank, albeit at a higher rate.5 Moreover,
central banks provide, on an intraday basis, the working balances which
banks need to carry out payments.
For all these different types of credit operations – open market operations,
the borrowing facility and intraday credit – the central bank generally
requires counterparties to pledge collateral as security. An exception is the
Federal Reserve System which does not require intraday credit to
be collateralized except in certain circumstances (e.g. if the counterparty
needs additional daylight capacity beyond its net debit cap, or if there are
4 The importance of understanding the economic and policy issues related to the functioning of repo markets for
conducting temporary open market operations was emphasized in BIS 1999. The ECB regularly publishes the results
of studies on the structure and functioning of the euro money market (ECB 2007a).
5 In the United States, until the reform of the Federal Reserve System’s discount window in 2003, lending was only
made on a discretionary basis at below-market rates. There were, however, certain exceptions, such as a special
liquidity facility with an above-market rate that was put in place in late 1999 to ease liquidity pressures during the
changeover to the new century. The complementary lending facility was introduced in 2001 in Japan.
342
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 371 ---
concerns about the counterparty’s ﬁnancial condition). Table 9.1 shows how
the type of operation affects the collateral accepted in the three central banks.
2.2 Common principles
Of course, assuming that the collateral can be legally transferred to the
central bank and that adequate valuation and risk control measures can be
designed, there is, in theory, an almost inﬁnitely wide range of assets which
could potentially perform the role of collateral. This may cover liquid
marketable ﬁxed-income securities, such as government and corporate
bonds, equity-style instruments, loans to the public sector, corporations or
consumers, and even exotic assets such as real estate and commodities.
Therefore, in order to guide decision making on what types of assets to
accept as collateral, each central bank has established some guidelines or
principles for its collateral framework. These principles can be distilled
down to a rather similar set of elements:
 All three central banks require eligible collateral to be creditworthy in
order to maintain the soundness of the bank’s assets.
 The type and quantity of eligible collateral must allow the central bank to
conduct its open market operations smoothly, even for large amounts at
very short notice. In addition, the choice and quantity of collateral
available must also allow the payment systems to function efﬁciently.
 All three central banks strive for efﬁciency. Thus, the collateral ideally
should not cause costs in its mobilization to both the counterparty and
the central bank which exceed the actual beneﬁts to counterparties.
Table 9.1 Differentiation of collateral policy depending on type of operation
Federal Reserve System
Eurosystem
Bank of Japan
Temporary
operations
Treasuries, Agencies,
MBSs, separate auctions
with different marginal
rates
The same broad set of
collateral accepted for
all operations
The same broad range
of collateral accepted for
open market operations
and the complementary
lending facility
Borrowing facility
Wide set beyond the set
for temporary operations
Intraday credit
No collateralization as
long as credit remains
below cap
Mainly JGBs; other
securities accepted
under conditions
343
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 372 ---
 All three central banks aim for a high degree of transparency and
accountability. These principles ensure that the public trusts that the
institution is behaving objectively, responsibly and with integrity, and
that it is not favouring any special interests. For the collateral framework,
this would imply selecting assets for eligibility based on objective and
publicly available principles and criteria, while avoiding unnecessary
discretion.
 All three central banks, albeit in rather different ways, strive to avoid
distortions to asset prices or to market participants’ behaviour which
would lead to an overall loss in welfare.6
One of the asset classes which would normally most readily comply with
these principles is marketable securities issued by the central government.
Government securities are generally the asset class which is most available
on banks’ balance sheets and thus they ensure that operations of a sufﬁcient
size can be conducted without disrupting ﬁnancial markets. Furthermore,
government bonds have a low cost of mobilization, as they can be easily
transferred and handled through securities settlement systems, and the
information required for pricing and evaluating their credit risk is publicly
available. Third, accepting government bonds would also not conﬂict with
the central bank’s objectives of being transparent, accountable, and avoiding
the creation of market distortions.
Having said this, there are other types of assets that also clearly fulﬁll
these principles. In fact, all three central banks have expanded the eligibility
beyond central government debt securities, although to different degrees.
The Federal Reserve System, in its temporary open market operations,
accepts not only government securities, but also securities issued by the
government-sponsored agencies and mortgage-backed securities guaranteed
by the agencies; in its primary credit facility operations, the Federal Reserve
System accepts a very wide range of assets, such as corporate and consumer
loans and cross-border collateral. The Bank of Japan and the Eurosystem
accept as collateral for temporary lending operations a very wide range of
private-sector ﬁxed-income securities, as well as loans to the public and
private sector. For each central bank, the decision to expand eligibility
beyond government securities can be explained by several factors related to
the overall design of the operational framework, such as the size of the
temporary operations and the decision on how many counterparties can
6 The potential impact of collateral use on markets has been studied by the Committee on the Global Financial System,
see CGFS (2001).
344
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 373 ---
participate, and also by the ﬁnancial environment in which the central bank
operates, in particular, the depth and integration of non-government
securities markets. These factors are explored in detail in the following two
subsections.
2.3 Choices of the overall operational framework
One of the key aspects of the operational framework which impacts on the
collateral framework is how the central bank supplies liquidity to the
banking sector. Table 9.2 compares the size of central bank temporary
operations, both in terms of amounts outstanding and as a proportion of
their total balance sheet.
The table raises a number of interesting observations. First, the size of the
Federal Reserve System’s temporary open market operations is signiﬁcantly
lower than that of the Eurosystem and the Bank of Japan, both in absolute
amounts and as a proportion of the balance sheet. This is because the
Federal Reserve System primarily supplies funds to the banking sector via
outright operations, which accounted for 90 per cent of its balance sheet at
the end of 2006. The Fed’s temporary operations play the role of smoothing
short- to medium-term ﬂuctuations in liquidity needs at the margin.
Second, for all three central banks, the size of the Lombard facility is neg-
ligible, in line with its role of providing funds when the market cannot
provide them and putting a ceiling on overnight interest rates. Third, the
Eurosystem issues by far the largest volume of intraday credit, both in
absolute terms and as a proportion of its balance sheet.
The size of the temporary operations clearly has an impact on the choice
of collateral: all other things being equal, the larger the size of the oper-
ations, the greater the need to expand the type of collateral accepted to a
wider set of instruments in order to ensure that the central bank can
comply, in particular, with one of the principles identiﬁed in Section 2.2:
the ability to conduct monetary policy and ensure the smooth operation of
the payment systems.
A second important aspect of the overall operational set-up, which
impacts on the design of the collateral frameworks, is the choice of coun-
terparties which can participate in the various central bank operations. To
ensure that its open market operations can be conducted efﬁciently on a
daily basis and also at very short notice, the Federal Reserve System uses
only a small group of currently twenty-one ‘primary dealers’. These primary
dealers are relied upon to re-distribute liquidity to the rest of the banking
345
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 374 ---
sector. For the primary credit facility, the approach is different: all 7,000
credit institutions which have a reserve account with the Federal Reserve
Bank and an adequate supervisory rating are allowed access. The Euro-
system’s operational framework has been guided, instead, by the principle of
ensuring access to its reﬁnancing operations to any counterparty which so
desires. All credit institutions subject to minimum reserve requirements can
thus participate in the main temporary operations, provided they meet
some basic requirements. Currently, about 1,700 are eligible to participate
in regular open market operations, although in practice fewer than 500
participate regularly in such operations; whereas 2,150 have access to the
Lombard facility and a similar number can use intraday credit. The Bank of
Japan takes an intermediate approach in order to ensure that it can operate
in a wide range of different markets and instruments, but at the same time
also maintains operational efﬁciency: around 150 counterparties are eligible
to participate in the fund-supplying operations against pooled collateral,
but they must also fulﬁll certain criteria.
The selection of counterparties has certain implications: the wider their
range, all other things being equal, the more heterogeneous is the type of
collateral assets held on their balance sheets. In the case of the Eurosystem,
this heterogeneity of counterparties’ balance sheets was even greater –
relative to the other two central banks – due to the fragmented nature of
national ﬁnancial markets at the inception of the euro in 1999. The Euro-
system has therefore considered it especially important to take into account
this heterogeneity when designing its collateral framework, in order to
Table 9.2 Comparison of sizes of credit operations (averages for 2006, in EUR billions)
Federal Reserve System
Eurosystem
Bank of Japan
Average
size of
operations
% of
balance
sheet
Average
size of
operations
% of
balance
sheet
Average
size of
operations
% of
balance
sheet
Temporary
operations
19
3%
422.4
38%
274
34%
Lombard facility
0.2
0%
0.1
0%
0.6
0.1%
Intraday credit
102
15%
260
24%
124.3
15.5%
Total
121
18%
682.5
62%
398.9
49.7%
Note: Converted to euro using end-2006 exchange rates.
Sources: Federal Reserve System; ECB; Bank of Japan.
346
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 375 ---
ensure that banks in the (by now ﬁfteen) different countries of the euro area
can participate in central bank operations with relatively similar costs of
collateral and without requiring a signiﬁcant restructuring of their balance
sheets. In the case of the Federal Reserve System, instead, the relatively few
counterparties participating in open market operations are very active in the
government securities markets, so the Federal Reserve System can be fairly
conﬁdent that these banks have large holdings of the same type of collateral.
In contrast, for its primary credit facility operations, it has chosen a very
diverse range of counterparties – even broader than for the Eurosystem
open market operations.
2.4 External constraints
In addition to the design of the overall operational framework, the central
bank also needs to take into account its speciﬁc ﬁnancial environment, in
particular the size of the government and private bond markets relative to
the demand for collateral. In the United States, there are three types of ﬁxed-
income assets – the US Treasury paper, the agency bond securities and
mortgage-backed securities – which have large outstanding amounts, are
highly liquid and standardized, have a high credit quality and are widely held
on the primary dealers’ balance sheets. The large size and liquidity of the
markets for these assets ensure that the central bank can intervene at short
notice and for large amounts without disturbing ﬁnancial markets. The high
credit rating of the issuers ensures that the Federal Reserve System faces little
risk; in addition, the fact that all these securities are book-entry format and
can be easily priced and settled ensures operational efﬁciency; lastly, oper-
ating in highly standardized markets of a limited number of public or quasi-
public entities ensures transparency. Given the relatively small size of the
Federal Reserve System’s temporary operations (and the fact that the
majority of these are already collateralized with US treasuries), it would
probably be feasible to implement monetary policy only with government
bonds. But given that two other markets exist, which also obviously fulﬁll the
Federal Reserve System’s principles, granting eligibility to them provides
even more ﬂexibility to counterparties with relatively limited additional
costs.
In the euro area, private-sector bond markets have not yet reached the
same scale as in the United States, where the vast majority of residential
mortgages are funded through the capital markets, in which the govern-
ment-sponsored agencies have played a critical role. In Europe, instead, the
347
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 376 ---
funding of residential mortgages is still predominantly done through retail
deposits. It is estimated that retail deposits accounted for approximately
60 per cent of Europe’s EUR 5.1 trillion of outstanding residential mortgage
balances in 2005, with only 27.5 per cent funded using securities, such as
covered bonds and mortgage-backed securities, and the remainder through
unsecured borrowing. In addition, in Europe, the corporate bond market is
less developed than in the United States, as ﬁrms have traditionally tended
to obtain ﬁnancing directly from banks rather than the capital markets. This
is reﬂected in the composition of banks’ balance sheets: loans to euro area
residents accounted for EUR 15 trillion or 57 per cent of euro area banks’
balance sheets at the end of 2006. The fact that loans still form a major part
of the assets of Eurosystem counterparties, and will likely continue to do so
for the foreseeable future, was one of the reasons why the Eurosystem
developed a euro area-wide eligibility framework that includes loans to the
corporate sector, which was launched at the start of 2007.
In Japan, private sector bond markets are also less developed than in the
United States, with only a very small proportion of mortgages being
ﬁnanced through mortgage-related securities, and corporations mainly
obtaining ﬁnancing from banks rather than the capital markets. However,
given that the government bond market is extremely deep, with higher
outstanding issuance volume than both the US and euro area government
bond markets, the lack of alternative private-sector bond markets has
posed fewer difﬁculties for the Bank of Japan than for the Eurosystem.
Nevertheless, the Bank has modiﬁed its collateral framework as the eco-
nomic and ﬁnancial environment has changed. It has also broadened the
range of eligible collateral to include relatively new instruments such as
asset-backed securities as the marketability of these instruments increased.
Furthermore, it has made loans to the Deposit Insurance Corporation as
well as to the Government’s ‘Special Account for the Allotment of Local
Allocation Tax and Local Transfer Tax’ eligible in early 2002. These actions
noticeably increased the amount of eligible collateral and hence contrib-
uted to the smooth provision of liquidity under the quantitative easing
policy.
3. Eligibility criteria
This section describes how the three central banks have translated their
principles into eligibility criteria, while also taking into account the various
348
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 377 ---
external constraints that they face. The precise eligibility criteria are sum-
marized very broadly in Table 9.3.
There are a number of interesting similarities and differences. First, for the
Federal Reserve System’s open market operations, the eligibility criteria are
fundamentally issuer-based: all debt securities issued by the US Treasury are
eligible, plus all senior debt issued by the government-sponsored agencies
(the largest of which are Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan
Bank), plus all the mortgage-backed securities which are fully guaranteed by
the same agencies. For the Eurosystem and the Bank of Japan’s reﬁnancing
operations against pooled collateral, the eligibility criteria are more general
and not issuer-based, so as to encompass a broader range of assets.
Second, the Federal Reserve System accepts a substantially wider range of
collateral at its primary credit facility than in its open market operations;
furthermore, the range of collateral accepted for its primary credit facility is
also broader than that accepted in the borrowing facility at the Eurosystem and
the Bank of Japan. For example, foreign currency-denominated securities,
securities issued abroad, and mortgage loans to households are eligible for the
Fed’s primary credit facility, but would not be eligible in Japan or the euro area.
Third, the Eurosystem is the only central bank which accepts unsecured
bonds issued by credit institutions as collateral in its main open market
operations, although these are eligible in the Fed’s primary credit facility.
The Bank of Japan does not accept unsecured bonds issued by counter-
parties of the Bank, to avoid disclosing the Bank’s judgement on any par-
ticular counterparty’s creditworthiness and collateralizing credit to the
counterparties with liabilities of the counterparties which may be redeemed
by proceeds from the central bank’s credit itself.
Fourth, asset-backed securities (ABS) are generally eligible for use in the
main open market operations of all three central banks, although in the case
of the United States they must be guaranteed by a government agency. The
Eurosystem has established in 2006 some additional speciﬁc criteria that
must be fulﬁlled by ABS and asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP)8: as
well as fulﬁlling the other general eligibility criteria such as being denom-
inated in euro and settled in the euro area etc., there must be a true sale of
the underlying assets to the special purpose vehicle (SPV)9 and SPV must be
8 Only a very small number of ABCP are currently eligible, mainly because they do not fulfill one of the general
eligibility criteria, in particular the requirement to be traded on a non-regulated market that is accepted by the ECB.
9 A true sale is the legal sale of an underlying portfolio of securities from the originator to the special purpose
vehicle, implying that investors in the issued notes are not vulnerable to claims against the originator of the
assets.
349
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 378 ---
Table 9.3 Comparison of eligibility criteria
Federal Reserve
System (temporary
open market
operations)
Federal Reserve
System (primary
credit facility)
Eurosystem
Bank of Japan
Type of
assets
Marketable debt
securities
H
H
H
H Debtor must
not be a counterparty
Equities
–
H Government agency
stocks only
–
–
Bank loans
–
H
H Debtor must be
a non-ﬁnancial
corporation
or public-sector
entity
H Debtor must
not be a counterparty
Type of
issuer/debtor
Central
government
H
H
H
H
Government agency
H
H
H
H
Regional, local
government
–
H
H
H
Corporate
–
H
H
H Debtor must not be a
counterparty
Bank
–
H
H
H Debtor must not be
a counterparty
Supranational
–
H
H
H International ﬁnancial
institutions
Asset-backed
securities
H Only if guaranteed
by an agency
H
H Only if there is a
true sale of assets and
SPV is bankruptcy
remote from originator
H Only if there is a true
sale of assets and SPV is
bankruptcy remote from
originator
350

--- Página 379 ---
Household
–
H Residential property
and consumer loans
–
–
Issuer residence
Domestic
H
H
H
H
Foreign
–
H Includes foreign
governments,
supranationals and
European Pfandbriefe
issuers
H For marketable
securities, it includes
all 30 countries of the
European Economic
Area (EEA), the four
non-EEA G10 countries
and supranationals.
H Valid only
for commercial paper
that is guaranteed by
a domestic resident,
certain foreign
governments and
supranationals
Seniority
Senior
H
H
H
H
Subordinated
–
–
–
–
Credit standards
Minimum credit
threshold for issuer
or asset
Not
applicable
Minimum rating of
BBB or equivalent,
but AAA for some
complex or foreign
currency assets
Minimum single A or
equivalent
Minimum rating varies
from single A to AAA
depending on issuer
group and asset class7
JGB, government
guaranteed bond and
municipal bonds are
eligible regardless of
the ratings
Settlement
Domestic
H
H
H
H
Foreign
–
H Euroclear,
Clearstream and third
party custodians
–
–
Currency
Domestic
H
H
H
H
Foreign
–
H Usually only the
major currencies
–
–
7 For bills, commercial paper, loans on deeds to companies and other corporate debt, the Bank of Japan evaluates collateral eligibility based on its own criteria for
assessing a ﬁrm’s creditworthiness. Additionally, for some assets, the Bank of Japan requires debtors to have at least a certain credit rating level from credit rating
agencies.
351

--- Página 380 ---
bankruptcy remote; the underlying assets must also not consist of credit-
linked notes or similar claims resulting from the transfer of credit risk by
means of credit derivatives. One of the clearest consequences of these
criteria is that synthetic securitizations,10 as well as collateralized bond
obligations which include tranches of synthetic ABS as underlying assets, are
not eligible. However, despite introducing these additional criteria, the
volume of ABS that is potentially eligible is still very large, amounting to
EUR 746 billion at the end of August 2007. The Bank of Japan has also
established speciﬁc eligibility criteria for ABS and ABCP which are similar
to the Eurosystem’s; there must be a true sale (i.e. no synthetic securitiza-
tion) and the SPV must be bankruptcy remote; there must also be alter-
native measures set up for the collection of receivables and the securities
must be rated AAA by a rating agency. In its open market operations, the
Federal Reserve only accepts mortgage-backed securities which are guar-
anteed by one of the government agencies (which are incidentally also only
true sale securitization), but in its primary credit facility operations it would
accept a wide range of ABS, ABCP and collateral debt obligations, including
synthetic securitization. Furthermore, in August 2007, there was also a
minor change in the primary credit facility collateral policy which implied
that a bank could pledge ABCP of issuers to whom that bank also provides
liquidity enhancements such as a line of credit.
Fifth, the Eurosystem and the Bank of Japan (as well as the Fed in its
primary credit facility) accept bank loans to corporations and the public
sector as collateral.
Sixth, in terms of foreign collateral,11 there are both similarities and
differences. In their open market operations, all three central banks only
accept collateral in local currency, which is also issued and settled domes-
tically. However, unlike the two other central banks, the Eurosystem also
accepts assets denominated in euros but issued by entities from some
countries outside the European Economic Area in its operations.
Lastly, all three central banks have somewhat different approaches
regarding the assessment of compliance with the eligibility criteria and the
disclosure to the banks of which assets are eligible. The Federal Reserve
System, in its open market operations, publishes its eligibility criteria in
10 A synthetic securitization uses credit derivatives to achieve the same credit-risk transfer as a true sale structure, but
without physically transferring the assets.
11 The Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems (CPSS) has studied the advantages but also the challenges of
accepting cross-border collateral (CPSS 2006).
352
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 381 ---
several documents and on its website (see Federal Reserve System 2002 and
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 2007). Because of the simplicity of assets
it accepts, there is no need to publish a list of eligible assets on its website.
For its primary credit facility, the Federal Reserve System publishes a general
guide regarding the eligibility criteria, and suggests that the counterparty
contact its local Federal Reserve Bank regarding speciﬁc questions on the
details of eligibility. The Bank of Japan publishes a general guideline on
eligibility on its website,12 which for most assets is sufﬁcient to clarify to
banks whether a speciﬁc asset is eligible or not. For some assets, in most
cases whose obligors are private companies, the Bank of Japan only assesses
eligibility at a counterparty’s request. For the Eurosystem, the ECB pub-
lishes daily a deﬁnitive list of all eligible assets.13 Because of the Euro-
system’s very large and diverse collateral framework (about 26,000 securities
are listed in the eligible asset database), as well as the decentralized settle-
ment of transactions at the level of the Eurosystem NCBs, this is important
both for transparency to counterparties and operational efﬁciency. For
obvious reasons, the eligibility of bank loans can only be assessed on request
and a list cannot be published.
4. Credit risk assessment and risk control framework
Once a central bank determines the level of risk that it will normally accept
in collateralized lending, it has a number of tools to achieve that level of
risk: counterparty borrowing limits; credit standards for collateral; limits on
collateral issuers or sectors; collateral valuation procedures; initial haircuts;
margin calls; and close links prohibitions. Chapter 7 of this book described
these tools in detail drawing also on ECB (2004a). All three central banks
use a combination of these tools and, unlike in the choice of eligible col-
lateral, the underlying methodologies and practices of the risk control
frameworks are relatively similar.
4.1 Credit risk assessment framework
The Eurosystem, Bank of Japan and FED (in its primary credit facility
operations) consider external credit ratings by rating agencies as a main
source of reference for determining whether assets have sufﬁciently high
12 See Bank of Japan (2004) for details.
13 The general eligibility criteria can be found in ECB (2006b).
353
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 382 ---
credit quality. The general threshold for a minimum rating is A– for the
BoJ14 and the Eurosystem. For the Fed’s primary credit facility operations,
the minimum rating is generally BBB, but, like the BoJ, the Fed requires a
higher rating for some complex assets (e.g. ABS). In addition to external
ratings, the three central banks use a number of alternative sources of credit
assessment. The BoJ uses its own in-house credit assessment system for
corporate bonds, commercial paper and bills and requires these assets to
exceed both the external and the internal rating thresholds. For its primary
credit facility collateral, the Fed can also rely on counterparties’ internal
rating systems if these are accepted by the regulator. The Eurosystem uses all
types of alternative credit assessments: in-house credit assessment systems,
counterparties’ internal rating systems as well as third-party rating tools.
4.2 Valuation
Regarding the valuation of collateral, there are only some minor differences in
the practices of the three central banks. For the Federal Reserve System’s repo
operations, valuation is carried out daily using prices from a variety of private
vendors. For its primary credit facility operations, revaluation takes place at
least weekly, based on market prices if available. For the Eurosystem, valuation
is carried out daily using the most representative price source, and, if no
up-to-date price exists, theoretical valuation is used. For the Bank of Japan,
daily valuation is used for the Japanese government bond repos, but weekly
revaluation is used for the standing pool of collateral. For the valuation of
bank loans, all three central banks generally use face value with the application
of higher haircuts, generally depending on the maturity of the loan.
4.3 Risk control measures
All three central banks use haircuts to take account of liquidity and market
risk. The haircuts depend on the liquidity characteristics of the asset, issuer
group, asset type, the residual maturity of the asset and the coupon type. For
the primary credit facility, if a market price does not exist, the Federal
Reserve System uses the face value and applies higher haircuts.
A detailed comparison of haircut schedules of the three central banks
would be difﬁcult due to the differences in the set of eligible assets. In
14 For some special asset types (e.g. asset-backed securities, agency bonds, foreign government bonds), the BoJ requires
a higher rating and/or ratings from more than one rating agency.
354
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 383 ---
particular the haircuts applied by the Fed in its open market operations are
not public. Therefore tables 9.4 and 9.5 compare the haircuts applied by the
Fed in its primary credit facility to those applied by the Eurosystem and
Bank of Japan in their main open market operations.
Table 9.4 compares the haircuts applied to debt instruments issued by
central governments for different residual maturities.
Table 9.5 compares the haircuts applied to various asset types accepted by
both central banks by ﬁxing the residual maturity to ﬁve years.
All three central banks use global margin calls in case the aggregate value
of the collateral pool falls below the total borrowing by the counterparty in a
Table 9.4 Comparison of haircuts applied to government bonds
Federal Reserve
System15
Eurosystem
Bank of Japan
Up to 1 year
2%
0.5%
1%
1–3 years
2%
1.5%
2%
3–5 years
2%
2.5%
2%
5–7 years
3%
3.0%
4%
7–10 years
3%
4.0%
4%
10–20 years
7%
5.5%
7%
20–30 years
7%
5.5%
10%
>30 years
7%
5.5%
13%
Table 9.5 Comparison of haircuts of assets with a residual maturity of ﬁve years
Federal Reserve
System
Eurosystem
Bank of Japan
Government bonds
2%
2.5%
2%
Regional/Local
Government bonds
3%
3.5%
3%
Corporate bonds
3%
4.5%
4%
ABS
2–3%
5.5%
4%
Loans to corporates
10–13%16
11%/20%17
15%
15 Haircuts apply to the primary credit facility. If the market price of the securities is not available, a 10 per cent haircut
is applied independently of maturity.
16 These haircuts apply to individually deposited loans. Group deposited loans are subject to higher haircuts.
17 The Eurosystem haircut for loans to corporates in this maturity bucket is 11 per cent if the value of the loan is
computed by a theoretical method (discounting cash flows). In most cases however, the value of the loan is
computed on the basis of the outstanding amount in which case the haircut is 20 per cent.
355
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 384 ---
particular operation, i.e. margin calls are not calculated on an asset-by-asset
basis. All three central banks apply daily valuation and execute margin calls
for their open market operations.
None of the central banks currently uses counterparty borrowing limits18
for their temporary operations, and no predetermined limits are placed on
exposure to certain individual collateral issuers or guarantors.
Finally, all three central banks prohibit counterparties from using assets
where they may have a close ﬁnancial link with the issuer, which would
negate the protection from the collateral. This minimizes the risk of a
double default scenario. The Bank of Japan does not generally accept any
asset issued by its counterparties thus signiﬁcantly decreasing the concen-
tration of its exposures. The Federal Reserve does not accept any bank
bonds in its open market operations.
Box 9.1. Survey of credit and market risk mitigation in a collateral
management in central banks19
On 6 and 7 June 2005, a central bank risk management seminar attended by twenty-two
central banks took place in Ottawa, hosted by Bank of Canada. The seminar focused on
credit risk and part of it was dedicated to the management of collateral. The twenty-two
participating central banks replied to a survey of their collateral practices. All of these
central banks accepted government securities as assets. Securities issued by private
entities were accepted by seventeen central banks, non-marketable assets by eleven
central banks and equity by one central bank. About 55 per cent of the participating central
banks mentioned the use of cross-border collateral for some of their operations. Three
main issues on the risk management of collateral were covered in the survey: credit risk
assessment, risk control measures and asset valuation.
The credit assessment of the collateral was primarily based on ratings provided by
recognized rating agencies. For those operations where a wide range of assets was
accepted the rating threshold was set lower, typically at A or in one case at BBB. A few
central banks reported that domestic government paper was accepted as a rule regardless
of rating. As far as a rating threshold was applied, it was set to a single A level by seven
central banks, to A- by four, and to AAA, AA-, and BBB- by one central bank, respectively.
One available agency rating was usually enough but three central banks mentioned they
require two ratings. About one-third of the respondents mentioned the use of some form of
an in-house credit assessment for some assets and two central banks mentioned the use of
the assessment of commercial banks.
18 Counterparty limits are, instead, a typical risk control measure in transactions between private institutions (see, for
example, Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group II 2005).
19 Source: Bank of Canada.
356
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 385 ---
About half of the central banks surveyed reported using a rather simple haircut policy
with a limited number of different haircut values in the range of 1–5 per cent applied to
all collateral which was based on standard market practices rather than a speciﬁc mod-
el-based methodology. Central banks with a wider range of eligible collateral tended to
develop also more complex risk control frameworks often based on a VaR calculation, using
historical asset volatilities and an estimation of the assets liquidity and distinguishing
among different residual maturities. Seven central banks reported the use of some form of
concentration limits at least for some type of collateral and seven central banks used
pooling of collateral across some of their operations.
Daily valuation was the norm for all collateral accepted. In rare cases and for some
operations a weekly valuation was applied and one central bank mentioned valuation of
assets twice a day. The use of margin calls was linked to the complexity of the overall risk
control framework. In general, a threshold is agreed (either in percentage or absolute value)
beyond which a call for additional collateral is triggered. Valuation problems because of
lack of market prices arose in those central banks that accepted a wide range of assets
which include also illiquid securities or loans. In these cases one central bank used the face
value of the asset while others computed the present value by discounting future cash-
ﬂows. One central bank made use of ISMA (international securities market association)
prices and another central bank mentioned the use of vendor tools.
5. Conclusions
This chapter’s main focus was a comparison of collateral policies and related
risk management practices of three major central banks (the Federal Reserve
Board, Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank) supplemented by less
detailed information on a larger group of central banks. This comparison
could serve also as an informal test of the model of collateral management
policy presented in Chapter 7. Two general facts distilled from the com-
parison seem to suggest that the model does capture the ‘way of thinking’ of
central banks when developing their collateral policy.
First, central banks that implement monetary policy mainly or partly
by lending to the banking system collateralize their exposure. This
implies that protection against ﬁnancial loss in such operations, even if
these have a policy objective, ranks high in the priorities of central banks’
policies.
Second, the ﬁrst assets to be accepted as eligible collateral are invariably
government securities. This seems to conﬁrm the prediction of the model
that assets are included in the list of eligible collateral in the order of
increasing risk mitigation costs. Government securities, arguably the least
risky assets to be accepted as collateral, carry a minimum such cost.
357
Collateral and risk mitigation – a comparison

--- Página 386 ---
At the same time, it becomes clear that the model is too simple to capture
and explain the variability of collateral policies among central banks even if
these implement monetary policy in broadly similar ways. Both differences
in the fundamental principles chosen as the basis for the collateral policy of
the central bank as well as the differences in the ﬁnancial markets in which
central banks operate are important determinants of the ultimate form that
the collateral framework will take. Finally, the fact that collateral manage-
ment is a cost-intensive function in a central bank suggests that decisions to
change it could be difﬁcult and slow explaining also why practices may
remain different despite converging tendencies.
358
Tabakis, E. and Weller, B.

--- Página 387 ---
10
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio – an
application to the Eurosystem’s
collateralized lending operations
Elke Heinle and Matti Koivu
1. Introduction
This chapter presents an approach to estimate tail risk measures for a
portfolio of collateralized lending operations. While the general method is
applicable to any repo portfolio, this chapter presents an application of the
approach to the estimation of the residual risks of the Eurosystem’s col-
lateralized lending operations (which on average exceeded half a trillion
euro during 2006).
This chapter can be viewed as extending one of the speciﬁc steps consti-
tuting any collateralization framework as described in Chapter 7 Section 2.4
(‘Monitoring the use of the collateral framework and related risk taking’).
Any efﬁcient collateralization framework will provide some discretion to
counterparties on what types of collateral to use, and to what extent. This
discretion implies that the actual risk taking, for instance driven by con-
centration risks, cannot be anticipated. The central bank only can ensure
that the outcome is actually acceptable by closely monitoring the actual use
of the collateralization framework by counterparties, and establishing a
sound methodology to measure residual risks. If it is not acceptable, speciﬁc
changes to the framework are necessary to address the non-anticipated
(concentration) risks that arose. The thorough monitoring is the precon-
dition for a collateralization framework that provides leeway to counter-
parties, and therefore also for an efﬁcient framework.
For the implementation of monetary policy, the Eurosystem has a number
of instruments available of which liquidity-providing reverse transactions
have so far been the most important. In these transactions, the Eurosystem
buys speciﬁc types of assets under repurchase agreements or conducts credit
operations collateralized by such assets. In these reverse transactions the
359

--- Página 388 ---
Eurosystem incurs a counterparty risk, since the counterparty may be unable
to meet its credit obligations. This type of credit risk is mitigated by the
requirement of adequate collateral to guarantee the credit provided. Article
18.1 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks requires that all
Eurosystem credit operations have to be based on adequate collateral.
The Eurosystem’s collateral framework1 translates the statutory require-
ment of adequate collateralization into concrete tools and procedures that
guarantee sufﬁcient mitigation of the ﬁnancial risks in a reverse transaction.
However, the collateral framework cannot provide absolute security and
therefore there remain some risks for the Eurosystem. These risks that only
arise in case of a counterparty default can be grouped into two categories:
(1) the credit risk associated with the collateral accepted; (2) the liquidity-
related risk associated with a drop in the market value of the collateral
accepted before its liquidation.
To assess the adequacy of the risk control framework, it is necessary to
measure the residual risks of the Eurosystem’s credit operations. The risk
measure used is expected shortfall (ES) at a 99 per cent conﬁdence level.
Since risk is approximated by simulation, it is not necessary to enforce
distributional restrictions on the calculation of ES. Defaults for the coun-
terparties and issuers are simulated by using Monte Carlo simulations with
variance reduction techniques. With these techniques, the number of
required simulations can be largely reduced and at the same time the
accuracy of the resulting estimates can be improved.
This chapter is structured as follows: Sections 2 and 3 describe the data
set and the assumptions used for the estimation of the residual risks, split up
into credit risk (Section 2) and liquidity-related risk (Section 3). Section 4
addresses issues related to concentration risks. Sections 5 and 6 describe
the risk measure used for the estimation of residual risks and explain the
applied Monte Carlo simulation techniques. In Section 7 the results of the
residual risk estimations for the Eurosystem’s monetary policy operations
are presented. Section 8 concludes.
2. Simulating credit risk
Credit risk in the Eurosystem’s monetary policy operations is limited to the
so-called double default events. Only if the counterparty who has submitted
1 For further details see ECB (2006b).
360
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 389 ---
the collateral and the collateral issuer default at the same time, losses due to
credit risk may arise for the Eurosystem. This probability of a joint default
mainly depends on the following parameters:
 The counterparty’s probability of default (PD);
 The collateral issuer’s PD;
 The default correlation between the counterparty and the collateral
issuer.
The Eurosystem has put in place some risk mitigation measures to limit
the probability of a joint default. As regards the collateral issuer’s PD, the
collateral issuer’s minimum credit quality must at least correspond to a
single-A rating based on a ﬁrst-best rating. A PD over a one-year horizon of
ten basis points is considered as equivalent to a single-A credit assessment.
Moreover, in order to limit the default correlation between the counterparty
and the collateral issuer, the Eurosystem collateral framework does in
principle not foresee that a counterparty submits as collateral any asset
issued or guaranteed by itself or by any other entity with which it has close
links.
However, the Eurosystem has deﬁned some exceptions to this no-close-link
provision, like for example in the case of covered bonds. Moreover, the
Eurosystem opted to give a broad range of institutions access to its monetary
policy operations and therefore sets no restrictions on the counterparty’s
credit quality and hence its PD. Additionally, the Eurosystem sets so far no
limits on the use of collateral from certain issuers or on the use of certain types
of collateral. All these factors are potential risk sources in the Eurosystem’s
monetary policy operations that may especially materialize in phases of
ﬁnancial stress.
For the estimation of the credit risk arising from the Eurosystem’s
monetary policy operations, the expected shortfall / credit value-at-risk is
estimated by using simulation techniques (see Section 6) that broadly rely
on the CreditMetrics approach. The data set used for these estimations is a
snapshot taken in November 2006 on the assets submitted by the Euro-
system’s counterparties. The total amount of submitted collateral adds up to
around EUR 928 billion which is spread among more than 18,000 different
counterparty-issuer pairs.
In order to make this high dimensional problem operationally workable,
some few basic assumptions need to be made. These assumptions refer mainly
to the PDs, the recovery rates in the case of defaults and the dependencies
between the defaults of issuers and counterparties. They are discussed in the
following two subsections.
361
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 390 ---
2.1 Default probabilities and recovery rates
In this analysis, credit risk is estimated over an annual horizon – the
underlying assumption being that the collateral portfolio remains ﬁxed. PDs
for the various entities (counterparties and issuers) are derived from their
credit ratings. For the derivation of PDs for the different rating grades,
historical default rate information from three international rating agencies
(FitchRatings, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s) is used.2
The credit rating information for counterparties and issuers is collected
on a second-best rating basis. The average credit rating for counterparties is
around AA-. And the average credit rating for collateral is around AA, while
the average credit rating for bank bonds and corporate bonds is lower than
average and the average credit rating of asset-backed securities, government
bonds and covered bonds is above this average.
The historical default rate information captures default statistics for the
corporate sector that includes a wide variety of industries, including banks
and real estate. Since it is assumed that rating agencies produce uncondi-
tional PDs, it can be expected that e.g. a BBB-rating from an industrial sector
to be the same as a BBB-rating from the ﬁnancial industry in terms of PDs.
The benchmark PD for each rating grade is derived by applying the central
limit theorem to the arithmetic averages of the default frequency over the
respective time period. As such, it is possible to construct conﬁdence intervals
for the true mean lx of the population around this arithmetic average. The
central limit theorem states that the arithmetic average x of n independent
random variables xi, each having mean li and variance ri
2, is approximately
normally distributed with parameters lx ¼
P
n
i¼1
li
n
and r2
x ¼
P
n
i¼1
r2
i
n2 . Applying
this theorem to the rating agencies default frequencies, random variables
with li¼p and r2
i ¼ pð1  pÞ=Ni, yields the result that the arithmetic
average of the default frequencies is approximately normal with mean
lx ¼
P
n
i¼1
p
n
¼ p and variance r2
x ¼
P
n
i¼1
p 1p
ð
Þ
Ni
n2
. After estimating p and r2
x from the
rating agencies’ data, conﬁdence intervals for the mean, i.e. the default
probability p, can be constructed. These conﬁdence intervals can then be
used to derive estimates for annual PD thresholds for each credit quality step.
2 For further details on the methodology used see Coppens et al. 2007; for further details on PD information, see
Standard & Poor’s 2006; Hamilton and Varma 2006; FitchRatings 2006.
362
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 391 ---
The results obtained using a (two-sided) 99.9 per cent conﬁdence interval
are summarized in Table 10.1. These ﬁgures are used as input parameters
for the credit risk calculations.
The PDs of issuers are scaled down linearly from the annual PDs
according to the liquidation time of the least liquid instrument that has
been submitted from the issuer. This approach is based on the idea that
whenever a counterparty defaults (which may be at any point in time during
the year considered), a double default only occurs when an issuer from a
counterparty’s collateral pool also defaults during the time it takes for the
liquidation of the asset. The scaling down of the issuer PDs to the liquid-
ation period is therefore a possible way to consider the timing of defaults.
Linear scaling of PDs is used for example in CreditMetrics (see Gupton
et al. 1997). It reﬂects a rather conservative approach (see Bindseil and
Papadia 2006). In line with the CreditMetrics model, the one-year PDs are
simply divided by ﬁfty-two, if the liquidation time is one week.
In this analysis the same liquidation time assumptions are used as those
applied for the derivation of haircut levels for eligible marketable assets. For
this purpose, the different types of marketable assets are grouped into four
different liquidity categories, arranged from most liquid to least liquid
assets. The total liquidation time is largely based on assumptions regarding
the so-called ‘valuation period’, ‘grace period’ and ‘actual realization time’
and their relation with the default event time. It is assumed that the valu-
ation and grace period is the same for all asset classes (three to four working
days). The realization time refers to the time necessary to orderly liquidate
Tabel 10.1 Default probabilities for different rating grades
Rating
Numerical rating
Annual PD
AAA/Aaa
1
1 basis point
AAþ/Aa1
2
2 basis points
AA/Aa2
3
3 basis points
AA/Aa3
4
4 basis points
Aþ/A1
5
6 basis points
A/A2
6
8 basis points
A/A3
7
10 basis points
BBBþ/Baa1
8
20 basis points
BBB/Baa2
9
30 basis points
BBB/Baa3
10
42 basis points
Sources: Standard & Poor’s (2006); Hamilton and Varma (2006);
FitchRatings (2006); own calculations.
363
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 392 ---
the asset. This realization time is derived for each asset class separately by
using a combination of quantitative and qualitative criteria. For an overview
of the liquidation time assumptions used for this analysis, see Table 10.2.3
In this analysis the PDs of issuers are scaled down linearly from the
annual PDs according to the liquidation time of the least liquid instrument
submitted from the issuer. This is due to the constraint that a bond-speciﬁc
analysis is operationally not possible on this level given the high dimension
of the problem. To be conservative in the assumptions, the least liquid
instrument from an issuer was chosen to ﬁx the liquidation time applied.
But currently there are only few issuers that have issued debt instruments
that belong to different categories as listed in Table 10.2.
With regard to the recovery rates, the basic assumption is a constant
recovery rate of 40 per cent for all bonds. This assumption is roughly in line
with estimates for senior unsecured bonds reported by Altman et al. (2004).
A constant recovery rate of 40 per cent is of course a simplifying assumption
and in reality recovery rates depend on a number of factors, like the eco-
nomic cycle (see Frye 2000), the conditions of supply and demand (see
Altman et al. 2005a), the seniority of the assets within the capital structure
(see Acharya et al. 2003) or the initial credit quality of the assets (see Varma
et al. 2003). But since all the debt instruments considered in this analysis are
of comparable high credit quality (single-A rating or above) and in principle
no bonds are accepted that have subordinated structures, the application of
one single recovery rate for all the assets seems acceptable.
Tabel 10.2 Liquidation time assumptions used for the different asset classes
Category I
Category II
Category III
Category IV
Liquidation time
5 days
10 days
15 days
20 days
Asset classes
Central government
debt instruments
Debt instruments
issued by central
banks
Local and regional
government debt
instruments
Jumbo covered bank
bonds
Agency debt
instruments
Supranational debt
instruments
Traditional covered
bank bonds
Credit institution
debt instruments
Debt instruments
issued by corporate
and other issuers
Asset-backed
securities
3 For further details on the haircut framework in the Eurosystem’s monetary policy operations, see: ECB 2006b, 49 ff.
Further information may also be found in Chapter 8 of this book.
364
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 393 ---
2.2 Default correlation
A very important determinant of double defaults is the correlation between
the defaults of counterparties and issuers. Since this is a difﬁcult quantity to
observe directly, asset correlations are used instead. These are easier to
observe and could, for example, be estimated from ﬁnancial statements by
looking at the way the assets of different companies move together. The
intuition behind the use of asset returns of the counterparty to estimate the
probability of joint defaults lies in Merton’s structural model for default. In
Merton’s model, the ﬁrm’s default is driven by changes in the asset value of
the ﬁrm. As a result, the correlation between the asset returns of the two
obligors can be used to compute the default correlation between the two
obligors.
For the estimation of credit risk in this context an equal asset correlation
(between and across counterparties and issuers) is used. Such an approach
is partly necessitated due to technical restrictions, since the correlation
matrix needs to be positive deﬁnite. This would be extremely difﬁcult to
guarantee in case the individual correlations differ. The approach of using a
ﬁxed correlation level for all can be thought of as mainly modelling the
common systematic elements driving the asset returns of all companies.
Under normal conditions, a ﬁxed correlation level of 24 per cent is
assumed. This assumption is based on academic studies4 which have shown
that the average asset correlation to be in the range of 22.5 per cent and 27.5
per cent, and on the Basel II accord which (approximately) assumes a 24 per
cent asset correlation for highly rated assets. In Basel II, the asset correlation
is determined by the following formula:5
Correlation ¼
1
1  expð50Þ 0:12ð1  expð50PDÞÞ þ 0:24 expð50PDÞ
f
g
It is important to note that asset and default correlation are different
concepts. A default correlation is deﬁned as the correlation between two
random variables that get a value of one when the corresponding company
defaults and a value of zero otherwise (over a ﬁxed time interval). This can
roughly be interpreted as how often both companies default when one of
them defaults. Therefore, default correlation is determined both by the asset
4 See for example Lopez (2002); Ramaswamy (2005).
5 See BCBS (2006b, 64).
365
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 394 ---
correlation and the default probabilities. For a given level of asset correlation,
default correlation is a (generally increasing) function of the individual PD.6
Another aspect to be considered is the ‘nature’ of the dependence. A
common approach – which is also followed here – is to use a normal copula
model, where the dependence is introduced through a multivariate normal
vector (x1, . . . ,xd). Each default indicator is represented by Yk ¼ 1{xk>zk},
k ¼ 1, . . . ,d, with zk chosen to match the marginal default probability pk.
Since the issuer defaults are assumed to follow a multivariate normal dis-
tribution, it follows that zk ¼ U1(1pk), where U1 denotes the inverse of
the standardized cumulative normal distribution.
The use of a normal copula model is widespread. Such an approach is for
example also followed in Moody’s KMV or in CreditMetrics. This frequent
use of the multivariate normal distribution is certainly related to the sim-
plicity of its dependence structure, which is fully characterized by the
correlation matrix.
3. Simulating liquidity-related risks
Liquidity-related risks can arise if the value of the collateral falls in the
period between the counterparty’s default and the realization of the col-
lateral. In the time between the last valuation of the collateral and the
realization of the collateral in the market, the collateral price could decrease
to the extent that only a fraction of the claim could be recovered by the
borrower. Liquidity risk may be deﬁned as the risk of ﬁnancial loss arising
from difﬁculties in liquidating a position quickly without this having a
negative impact on the price of the asset. Market risk may be deﬁned in this
context as the risk of ﬁnancial loss due to a fall of the market value of
collateral caused by exogenous factors. In the following, these two different
kinds of risk will be treated jointly as liquidity-related risks.
The Eurosystem’s collateral framework foresees several risk mitigation
measures in order to reduce considerably these liquidity-related risks. As
regards the valuation of collateral, collateral needs to be valued on a daily
basis using the most representative price on the business day preceding the
valuation date. For non-marketable assets in general, and for marketable
assets in case no sufﬁciently reliable market price is available, the Euro-
system uses a theoretical price valuation.
6 For a more rigorous treatment of default correlation, see Hanson et al. (2005).
366
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 395 ---
With respect to the risk control measures currently applied by the
Eurosystem,7 ‘valuation haircuts’ play the most important role. When
accepting the collateral, the Eurosystem deducts a certain percentage of the
collateral value in order to ensure that there are no losses at liquidation.
This percentage depends on the price volatility of the relevant asset class and
on the prospective liquidation time. The Eurosystem sets haircuts to cover
99 per cent of the price changes within the assumed orderly liquidation time
of the respective asset class.
Moreover, the Eurosystem currently applies variation margins. The
Eurosystem requires that the market value of the underlying assets used in its
reverse transactions cover the provided liquidity over the life of the trans-
action. Thus if this value, measured on a daily basis, falls below a certain
level, counterparties have to supply additional assets or cash. Similarly, if the
value of the underlying assets exceeds a certain level, the counterparty may
retrieve the excess assets or cash.
For a loss due to liquidity-related risks to occur, the price drop of the
asset after the default of the counterparty has to be greater than covered for
by haircuts. This makes it quite a rare event, if liquidation time assumptions
are sufﬁcient, since haircuts are calculated using a 99 per cent conﬁdence
level, meaning that price drops smaller than 2.33 volatilities are covered for.
Denoting by X the price movement which is drawn from a normal distri-
bution, a loss due to liquidity risk from a single exposure from a coun-
terparty–issuer pair (i, j) is
Li;j ¼ defaultðiÞð1  defaultð jÞÞexposure

i;j rmaxð2:33  X; 0Þ
where default(i) equals one if entity i defaults, and equals zero otherwise.
For the estimation of liquidity-related risk in the Eurosystem’s credit
operations, some further assumptions have to be made. First of all, a dis-
tributional assumption for price movements is necessary. The usual practice
is followed here, meaning that a normal distribution for price changes is
assumed.
As regards the assumption on volatility, due to technical reasons and since
the simulation will not be performed on a bond-by-bond basis, the same
volatility will be assumed for all the assets in the collateral pool. For a der-
ivation of this volatility ﬁgure, a simple approach was chosen. The volatility
estimate was determined by calculating a series of day-to-day volatilities from
7 See also ECB (2006b).
367
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 396 ---
a monthly sliding window during the last three years, separately for different
maturities, by using a government yield curve.8 In order to be conservative in
the volatility estimate, a maximum out of the series of volatilities is taken to
derive the volatility ﬁgure. Then this daily volatility ﬁgure is scaled into a
weekly volatility. The result obtained from these calculations is a value of
around 1.2 per cent.
Given the fact that the collateral must be valued on a daily basis according
to the Eurosystem collateral framework, the basic assumption will be that
the value of collateral assigned to it by the Eurosystem reﬂects its market
value at the time of default. Given this assumption, the relevant time
horizon for the calculation of price ﬂuctuations is the time it takes to
liquidate the instrument. It is assumed that the liquidation time assump-
tions of the risk control framework (see Table 10.2) hold.
4. Issues related to concentration risks
Portfolio risks are obviously determined to a large extent by concentration and
correlations of defaults and price changes. Default correlations are in addition
particularly relevant for a repo portfolio in which credit risk is linked to PD.
This section therefore deals with concentration-related risks that are an
important source of credit risk in the Eurosystem collateral framework. The
dimensions of concentrations are manifold. Figure 10.1 gives an overview of
the most important types of concentrations the Eurosystem is exposed to in
its collateral operations. Since all these different types of concentrations
interact, a fully comprehensive assessment on the current level of concen-
tration and on the maximum level of acceptable concentration in the
Eurosystem collateral framework is a complex issue.
For the residual risk estimations, similar assumptions as in the Basel II
framework are made. Following the Asymptotic Single-Risk Factor model
that underpins the internal ratings based approach in the new Basel capital
accord, it is assumed that i) there is only one source of systematic risk and
that ii) the portfolios are perfectly ﬁne-grained meaning that idiosyncratic
risk has been fully diversiﬁed away. Assumption i) implies that the com-
monality of risk between any two individual credits is uniquely determined
by the intensity of their respective sensitivities to the single systematic
8 An approximation for price volatility can be obtained by multiplying the yield volatility with the instrument’s
modified duration.
368
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 397 ---
factor. That means that it is assumed that the portfolios are well-diversiﬁed
across sectors and geographical regions, so that the only remaining sys-
tematic risk is to the performance of the economy. In practical terms, this is
modelled by assuming a unique and constant correlation9 between and
across all the counterparties and collateral issuers. As already mentioned in
Section 2.2, the standard assumption chosen for the residual risk estima-
tions is a uniform asset correlation of 24 per cent.
In the following, the most important potential sources of concentration
in the Eurosystem collateral framework are analysed more in-depth. Iden-
tiﬁed concentration risks are then translated into a granularity adjustment
for credit risk or might be translated into a corresponding adjustment of the
above mentioned correlation assumption.
4.1 Concentration on the level of counterparties
Concentration can arise on the level of counterparties, meaning that col-
lateral may be submitted to the Eurosystem by only a few counterparties. As
can be seen from the Lorenz curve10 in Figure 10.2, there is indeed a high
Counterparties
CONCENTRATION
Collateral of single
counterparty 
Collateral
groups
countries
issuers
industries
Correlation
Figure 10.1
The most important types of concentrations in the Eurosystem collateral framework.
9 This approach is also necessitated due to technical restrictions, since the correlation matrix needs to be positive
definite.
10 The Lorenz curve of a probability distribution is a graphical representation of the cumulative distribution function
of that probability distribution. In the case of a uniform distribution, the Lorenz curve is a straight line.
369
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 398 ---
degree of concentration on the level of counterparties. The corresponding
Gini coefﬁcient11 is 0.898. Indeed, out of the 1264 counterparties submit-
ting collateral, 25 already account for half of the submitted collateral.
Within the counterparties, there can moreover be concentration on a
group level, meaning that different counterparties effectively belong to the
same banking group. Depending on the concrete design of the group
structure, especially as regards support mechanisms and unlimited liability
for other group members in case of default of one of the entities belonging
to the group, the implications of concentrations on a group level can be
quite different. The highest degree of concentration can be observed if there
is full joint liability from the whole banking group in case of default of one
entity. However, due to technical, data and resource restrictions, a com-
prehensive assessment of the current level of concentration on a banking
group level is not made for the purposes of this analysis.
Another concentration that can arise on the level of counterparties is
concentration by countries since certain risk factors may be country speciﬁc.
Given the fact that quite often counterparties from different countries form
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Cumulative number of counterparties (%)
Cumulative collateral submitted (%)
Figure 10.2
Lorenz curve for counterparties with respect to amount of collateral submitted.
Source: own calculations.
11 The Gini coefficient is a measure of inequality of a distribution, defined as the ratio of the area between the Lorenz
curve of the distribution and the Lorenz curve of the uniform distribution (which is a straight line), to the area
under the Lorenz curve of the uniform distribution. It is a number between zero and one, where zero corresponds to
perfect equality (i.e. all counterparties submitted the same amount of collateral) and one corresponds to perfect
inequality (i.e. only one counterparty submits collateral).
370
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 399 ---
one banking group, the determination of the ultimate country risk becomes
more and more difﬁcult. To get some idea on the distribution of counterparties
by countries, the counterparties can be grouped together according to their
country of residence of the ultimate parent. Such an analysis reveals that
counterparties are mainly concentrated in Germany whose counterparties
have submitted almost 57 per cent of the total amount of collateral sub-
mitted to the Eurosystem. Among the twenty-ﬁve most important coun-
terparties, seventeen are located in Germany, three in Spain, two each in the
Netherlands and Belgium and one in France.
Finally, there is concentration on the level of industries. Since the Euro-
system’s counterparties belong by deﬁnition to the banking sector, there is a
maximum degree of concentration by industry.
As regards the risk implications of counterparty concentration, the fol-
lowing can be concluded: overall, there is currently no perfect granularity on
the level of counterparties. This type of concentration is, however, an
exogenous factor that is driven by structural facts. In this respect it should
be noted that counterparty concentration could be even higher if the
Eurosystem’s monetary policy framework did not aim at ensuring the
participation of a broad range of counterparties.
4.2 Concentration on the level of collateral
Concentration on the level of collateral can arise in many respects. First,
there can be concentration on the level of issuers. Second, concentration
may be observed on the level of different asset categories. Third, concen-
tration may arise by industry to which the collateral issuers belong. Finally,
there may be concentrations on the level of collateral as regards country
exposure.
Concentration by issuers is illustrated in Figure 10.3. The chart shows the
Lorenz curve as regards collateral issuer concentration. The Gini coefﬁcient
of 0.823 indicates a slightly lower level of concentration than in the case of
counterparties. However, forty-two issuers already account for half of the
collateral submitted. Among them, German issuers – mainly banks and
(regional) government – form the most important share.
Another level of concentration is by industries. Concentration by industry
can ﬁrst be approached by looking at concentrations by asset categories:
There is a dominance of unsecured bank bonds that is submitted as col-
lateral (33.2 per cent). This implies a remarkable exposure to the banking
industry, in particular in view that the ﬁrst line of defence, the
371
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 400 ---
counterparties, exclusively belong to this industry. Government bonds
follow with 26.3 per cent, covered bonds with 18.4 per cent, ABS with 12 per
cent and corporate bonds with 7.5 per cent.
Covered bonds which are as well issued by banks also bear an exposure to
the banking sector. Depending on the legal framework governing the
covered bonds, this exposure may vary. For example, in covered bond
legislations where the cover asset pool is bankruptcy-segregated from the
holding entity, the insolvency will not necessarily trigger the acceleration of
the covered bonds and therefore the exposure to the banking industry is quite
low. By contrast, if there is no bankruptcy segregation of cover assets, that is,
the cover pool is not separated from other bank assets but the covered
bondholders have a superior preferential right to these assets, an insolvency of
the issuing bank also triggers the acceleration of the covered bond. In such a
case, the exposure to the banking industry is higher. Another important link
of covered bonds to the banking industry relates to the composition of
the cover pool: the level of voluntary over-collateralization and the quality of
the assets in a cover pool which are both an important quality feature for a
covered bond depend on the current situation of a bank. In case a bank runs
into ﬁnancial difﬁculties, it might not be willing to put more than the
required quantity and quality of assets in its cover pool.
0%
0%
20%
20%
40%
40%
60%
60%
80%
80%
100%
100%
Cumulative number of issuers (%)
Cumulative collateral submitted (%)
Figure 10.3
Lorenz curve for collateral issuers with respect to amount of collateral submitted.
Source: own calculations.
372
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 401 ---
The main industry exposure of covered bonds as well as of ABSs, how-
ever, depends on the assets forming the cover pool. For covered bonds, this
might be either mortgage loans or government bonds. According to statistics
from the European Covered Bond Council,12 around half of the covered
bonds outstanding on a European level are mortgage covered bonds, and
half are public sector covered bonds. These ﬁgures might serve as an indi-
cation for the ultimate industry exposure the Eurosystem is exposed to with
respect to the covered bonds that are submitted as collateral.
With regard to ABSs that constitute 12 per cent of the total amount of
submitted collateral, a clear attribution to speciﬁc industries is more difﬁ-
cult. It would be necessary to decompose the asset cover pools of each
submitted ABS in order to know the exact industry exposure. Around 80
per cent of the ABSs submitted to the Eurosystem can be clearly attributed
to the real estate sector.
Finally, the last signiﬁcant asset category is corporate bonds. When
having a closer look at the industrial sectors forming part of this asset
category, it turns out that for 71 per cent of the total amount submitted in
the form of corporate bonds, the issuers are part of the ﬁnancial industry
(like investment companies, insurance companies, etc.). Other sectors are:
communications (6 per cent), utilities (6 per cent), industrial (5 per cent),
governmental agencies (4 per cent) and consumer (4 per cent).
Putting all these pieces of information together, a rough indication on the
ultimate sector exposure of the Eurosystem in its collateral operations can be
provided. There are three dominating sectors: banks/ﬁnancials (42 per cent),
governments (36 per cent) and real estate (18 per cent).
As regards the risk implications of collateral concentration, the following
can be concluded. Overall, the degree of concentration on the level of
collateral can currently be considered as high. Although the concentration
by collateral issuers is in principle slightly lower than in the case of coun-
terparties, this fact cannot be satisfactory per se. In particular the high
sector concentration of Eurosystem collateral is remarkable. While the
Eurosystem collateral framework is designed as such in order to allow a
wide range of collateral from various industries, in reality three sectors
dominate the sector exposure: banks, government and real estate. The high
exposure to the banking sector is especially noteworthy because on the
counterparty side the structurally given sector exposure is also to the
12 According to these statistics, as of end 2005, there were EUR 885.6 billion mortgage covered bonds outstanding and
EUR 865.5 billion public sector covered bonds outstanding (see www.hypo.org).
373
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 402 ---
banking industry. Therefore, there is overall a high exposure to the banking
industry.
To take account of these ﬁndings in the residual risk estimations, a higher
level of correlation between and across counterparties and issuers could be
assumed in the residual risk estimations.
4.3 Concentrations in collateral from a single counterparty
Besides looking at concentrations within the group of counterparties and
the group of issuers separately, possible concentrations at the level of single
counterparties with respect to the usage of assets have also risk implications.
As already mentioned, one base assumption underlying the residual risk
estimations is that the portfolio of assets that each counterparty submits to
the Eurosystem is perfectly ﬁne-grained and therefore idiosyncratic risk has
been fully diversiﬁed away. In case this assumption might not hold true, a
risk adjustment is necessary.
The analysis in this section focuses on the concentration by collateral
issuers for each single counterparty. Concentrations by a single counter-
party as regards collateral issuer can be illustrated by the Herﬁndahl–
Hirschmann Index (HHI).13 It takes the value one if the submitted collateral
of one counterparty is concentrated on only one collateral issuer and zero
(in the limit) if the submitted collateral is equally distributed to a very high
number of collateral issuers. The HHI can be calculated for each single
counterparty and takes the form
HHI ¼
P
n
i¼1
Collateral2
i
ðP
n
i¼1
CollateraliÞ2
with i being the different collateral issuers from a counterparty.
To illustrate the calculation of HHI, assume bank X has submitted EUR
100 million from issuer A, EUR 200 million from issuer B, and EUR 250
million from issuer C. The HHI for bank X is then
HHI ¼ 1002 þ 2002 þ 2502
ð100 þ 200 þ 250Þ2 ¼ 0:3125
13 While the Gini coefficient is a measure of the deviation of a distribution of exposure amounts from an even distribution,
the HHI measures the extent to which a small number of collateral issuers account for a large proportion of exposure.
HHI is related to exposure concentration and therefore the appropriate concentration measure in this context.
374
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 403 ---
This index is calculated for all counterparties that submit assets to the
Eurosystem. The results are presented in Figure 10.4 in relation to the sum of
amount submitted by each counterparty. The average HHI of all counter-
parties – weighted by their respective sum of amount submitted – is around
0.119. To take account of this concentration in collateral from single coun-
terparties in the risk estimations, a granularity adjustment can be made.14
For the purposes of this analysis, a granularity adjustment is approxi-
mated following the simpliﬁed approach as described in Wilkens et al. 2001
for all the counterparties submitting assets to the Eurosystem. According to
this approach, the Credit Value-at-Risk (CVaRn) of a portfolio can be
decomposed into two components: the CVaR1 resulting from a perfectly
diversiﬁed portfolio and a factor (b*HHI) that accounts for granularity,
whereby b is a constant depending on PD and loss given default (LGD),
taking the form
b ¼ ð0:4 þ 1:2LGDÞð0:76 þ 1:1PD=FÞ
F is a measure of the systematic risk sensitivity. It takes the form
F ¼ Nða 
1 GðPDÞ þ a0Þ  PD
0
1
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
Sum of amount submitted by counterparty (EUR million)
Herfindahl-Hirschmann Index (HHI)
Figure 10.4
Herﬁndahl–Hirschmann Indices (HHI) of individual counterparties with respect to their collateral
submitted.
Source: own calculations.
14 For more details on the calculation of a granularity adjustment, see Gordy 2003; Gordy and Lu¨tkebohmert 2007;
BCBS 2001a; BCBS 2001b; Wilkens et al. 2001.
375
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 404 ---
where a0 and a1 are constants that depend only on the exposure type. For
corporate, bank, and sovereign exposures, the values of these coefﬁcients
were determined within the IRB granularity adjustment calculations as:
a0¼1.288 and a1¼1.118. These values will also be used in this context. G
(PD) denotes the inverse cumulative distribution function for PD. Given a
PD of 10 basis points, F takes the value of 0.014. Given F and making an
assumption on the average LGD, b can be calculated. Assuming for example
an average recovery rate of 40 per cent (and hence an LGD of 60 per cent),
b takes a constant value of 0.94. Then, the granularity adjustment for each
counterparty can be easily calculated if its HHI is known.
For the calculation of a granularity adjustment a constant PD of 10 basis
points and a constant recovery rate of 40 per cent (or respectively, an LGD
of 60 per cent) are assumed for all the assets submitted by counterparties.
Since the granularity adjustment is – following the simpliﬁed approach as
described above – a linear function of the HHI, an average granularity
adjustment can be easily calculated by multiplying the average HHI with the
b obtained using a PD of 10 basis points and a LGD of 60 per cent. This
results in an average granularity adjustment of around 11 per cent. Tech-
nically, in the residual risk estimations the granularity adjustment will be
taken into account in the credit risk component of the ES calculations.
As regards the risk implications of concentrations in collateral from a
single counterparty, the following can be concluded: Overall, there is a high
variety among counterparties as regards their collateral concentration.
While some counterparties submit a highly diversiﬁed collateral pool to the
Eurosystem, there is a sizeable amount of counterparties with collateral
pools that are very little diversiﬁed.
To include these ﬁndings in the residual risk estimations, a granularity
adjustment for credit risk could be taken into account.
5. Risk measures: Credit Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall
Like Value-at-Risk for market risk, Credit Value-at-Risk (Credit VaR) is
deﬁned as a certain quantile of the (portfolio) credit loss distribution. For
example, a 99 per cent Credit VaR is deﬁned to be the 99th percentile of the
loss distribution. Since Credit VaR is deﬁned with respect to a loss distri-
bution (negative losses mean proﬁts), losses are located in the right tail of
the distribution, i.e. in the upper quantiles. Expected Shortfall (ES), also
known as Conditional VaR or Expected Tail Loss, at a given conﬁdence level
376
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 405 ---
a per cent is deﬁned as the expected value of losses exceeding the a per cent
VaR, or equivalently the expected outcome in the worst (1a) per cent of
cases.
To be more precise, let x 2 Rd denote a random variable with a positive
density p(x). For each decision vector n, chosen from a certain subset w of
Rn, let h(n,x) denote the portfolio loss random variable, having a distri-
bution in R, induced by that of x. For a ﬁxed n the cumulative distribution
function for the portfolio loss variable is given by
Fðn; ŁÞ ¼
Z
hðn;xÞ	h
pðxÞdx ¼ Pfx 	 Łg
and its inverse is deﬁned as
F1ðn; xÞ ¼ minfh : Fðn; hÞ  xg
The VaRa and ESa values for the loss random variable associated with n
and a speciﬁed conﬁdence level a are given by
VaRaðnÞ ¼ F1ðn; aÞ
and
ESaðnÞ ¼ ð1  aÞ1
Z
hðn;xÞVaRaðnÞ
hðn; xÞpðxÞdx
As mentioned above, VaRa is the a-quantile of the portfolio loss distribu-
tion and ESa gives the expected value of losses exceeding VaRa.
As is well known, unlike VaR, ES is a coherent risk measure.15 One of
the main problems with VaR is that, in general, it is not sub-additive
which implies that it is possible to construct two portfolios A and B such that
VaR(AþB) > VaR(A) þ VaR(B). In other words, the VaR of the combined
portfolio exceeds the sum of the individual VaRs, thus discouraging diver-
siﬁcation. Another feature of VaR which, compared to ES, makes it unatt-
ractive from a computational point of view, is its lack of convexity. For these
reasons, ES is used as the preferred risk measure here.
Generally, the approaches used for the computation of risk measures can be
classiﬁed either as fully- or semi-parametric approaches. In a fully-parametric
15 Artzner et al. (1999) call a risk measure coherent if it is transition invariant, positively homogeneous, sub-additive
and monotonic with relation to stochastic dominance of order one.
377
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 406 ---
approach the portfolio loss distribution is assumed to follow some para-
metric distribution, e.g. the normal- or t-distribution, based on which the
relevant risk measures (VaR and ES) can be easily estimated. For example,
in the case the portfolio loss random variable hðn; xÞ would follow a normal
distribution, which is widely applied as the basis for market VaR calcula-
tions (Gupton et al. 1997), the 99 per cent VaR would be calculated as
VaR99%ðhÞ ¼ lh þ N1ð0:99Þrh  lh þ 2:33rh;
where lh and rh denote the mean and volatility of the losses.
In a semi-parametric approach the portfolio loss distribution is not
explicitly known. However, what is known instead is the (multivariate)
probability distribution of the random variable x, driving the portfolio
losses, and the mapping to the portfolio losses hðn; xÞ. In many cases, as is
also done here, the estimation of the portfolio risk measures has to be done
numerically by utilizing Monte Carlo (MC) simulation techniques.
The estimation of portfolio a-VaR by plain MC simulation can be
achieved by ﬁrst simulating a set of portfolio losses, organizing the losses in
increasing order and, ﬁnally, ﬁnding the value under which a ·100% of the
losses lie. ES can then be calculated by taking the average of the losses
exceeding this value.
However, this sorting-based procedure fails in case the generated sample
points are not equally probable, as happens e.g. when a variance reduction
technique called importance sampling is used to improve the accuracy of
the risk measure estimates. Fortunately, there exists an alternative way to
compute VaR and ES simultaneously, that is also applicable in the presence
of arbitrary variance reduction techniques.
Rockafellar and Uryasev (2000) have shown that, ESa (with conﬁdence
level a) can be obtained as a solution of a convex optimization problem
ESaðnÞ ¼ min
m2R m þ ð1  aÞ1
Z
x2Rd hðn; xÞ  m
½
þpðxÞdx;
ð10:1Þ
where ½zþ ¼ maxfz; 0g, and the value of m which minimizes equation
(10.1) equals VaRa . An MC-based estimate for ESa and VaRa is obtained by
generating a sample of realizations for the portfolio loss variable and by
solving
ESaðnÞ ¼ min
m2R m þ ð1  aÞ1 1
N
X
N
i¼1
hðn; xiÞ  m
½
þ:
378
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 407 ---
This problem can easily be solved either by formulating the above
problem as a linear program, as in Rockafellar and Uryasev (2000, 2002),
which requires introducing N auxiliary variables and inequality constraints
to the model, or by directly solving the one dimensional non-smooth
minimization problem e.g. with a sub-gradient algorithm; (see Bertsekas
1999 or Nesterov 2004 for more information on sub-gradient methods).
These expressions are readily applicable in optimization applications
where the optimization is also performed over the portfolio holdings n and
the objective is to ﬁnd an investment portfolio which minimizes the portfolio
ESa (see Rockafellar and Uryasev 2000, 2002; Andersson et al. 2001).
Another complication related to the speciﬁcs of credit risk estimation is
that credit events are extremely rare so that without a highly diversiﬁed
portfolio none will occur outside the e.g. 1 per cent tail and thus 99 per cent
VaR will be zero. ES on the other hand also accounts for the magnitude of
the tail events and is thus able to capture the difference between credit
exposures concentrated far into the tail.
As an example, consider a portfolio consisting of n different obligors with
4 basis point PD, which corresponds to a rating of AA–. Assuming for
simplicity that the different debtors are uncorrelated, it can be calculated
with elementary probability rules how many obligors the portfolio should
contain in order to obtain a non-zero VaR:
Pðat least one obligor defaultsÞ ¼ 1  Pðnone of the obligors defaultÞ
¼ 1  0:9996n > 0:01 , n > 25
Including the effect of correlation would mean that the number of obligors
should be even higher for VaR to be positive.
6. An efﬁcient Monte Carlo approach for credit risk estimation
The simplest and the best-known method for numerical approximation of
high-dimensional integrals is the Monte Carlo method (MC), i.e. random
sampling. However, in the literature of numerical integration, there exist
many techniques that can be used to improve the performance of MC
sampling schemes in high-dimensional integration. These techniques can be
generally classiﬁed as variance reduction techniques since they all aim at
reducing the variance of the MC estimates. Most widely applied variance
reduction techniques in ﬁnancial engineering include importance sampling
379
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 408 ---
(IS), (randomized) quasi-Monte Carlo (QMC) methods, antithetic variates
and control variates; see Glasserman 2004 for a thorough introduction to
these techniques. Often the use of these techniques substantially improves
the accuracy of the resulting MC estimates, thus effectively reducing the
computational burden required by the simulations; see e.g. Ja¨ckel (2002),
Glasserman (2004) and the references therein. In the context of credit risk
(rare event) simulations the application of importance sampling usually
offers substantial variance reductions, but combining IS with e.g. QMC
sampling techniques can improve the computational efﬁciency even further.
Sections 6.1 and 6.2 provide a brief overview and motivation for the
variance reduction techniques applied in this study: importance sampling
and randomized QMC methods. Section 6.3 demonstrates the effectiveness
of different variance reduction techniques in the estimation of credit risk
measures, in order to ﬁnd out which combination of variance reduction
techniques would be well suited for the residual risk estimation in the
Eurosystem’s credit operations.
6.1 Importance sampling
Importance sampling is especially suited for rare event simulations. Roughly
speaking, the objective of importance sampling is to make rare events less
rare by concentrating the sampling effort in the region of the sampling space
which matters most to the value of the integrand, i.e. the tail of the dis-
tribution in the credit risk context.
Recall that the usual MC estimator of the expectation of a (loss) function h
l ¼
Z
x2Rd hðn; xÞpðxÞdx ¼ E hðxÞ
½

where x2Rd is a d-dimensional random variable with a positive density p (x)
is
^l ¼ 1
N
X
N
i¼1
hðxiÞ
where N is the number of simulated sample points.
When calculating the expectation of a function which gets a non-zero
value only under the occurrence of a rare event, say a default with a
probability e.g. 0.04 per cent, it is not efﬁcient to sample points from the
380
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 409 ---
distribution of x, since the majority of the generated sample points will
provide no information about the behaviour of the integrand. Instead, it
would seem intuitive to generate the random samples so that they are more
concentrated in the region which matters most to the value of the integrand.
This intuition is reﬂected in importance sampling by replacing the original
sampling distribution with a distribution which increases the likelihood that
‘important’ observations are drawn.
Let g be any other probability density on Rd satisfying pðxÞ > 0 )
gðxÞ > 0; 8x 2 Rd:
Then l can be written as
l ¼ E hðxÞ
½
 ¼
Z
x2Rd hðn; xÞ pðxÞ
gðxÞ gðxÞdx ¼ ~E hðxÞ pðxÞ
gðxÞ


where ~E indicates that the expectation is taken with respect to the prob-
ability measure g, and the MC estimator of l is given by
l ¼ 1
N
X
N
i¼1
hðxiÞ ¼ 1
N
X
N
i¼1
hð~xiÞ pð~xiÞ
gð~xiÞ
with ~xi; i ¼ 1; . . . ; N independent draws from g and the weight pð~xiÞ=gð~xiÞ
is the ratio of the original and the new importance sampling density.
The IS estimator of ESa and VaRa can now be obtained by simply solving
the problem
ESaðnÞ ¼ min
m2R m þ ð1  aÞ1 1
N
X
N
i¼1
pð~xiÞ
gð~xiÞ hðn; ~xiÞ  m
½
þ
ð10:2Þ
where ~xi; i ¼ 1; . . . ; N are independent draws from the density g.
Successful application of importance sampling requires that:
1) g is chosen so that the variance of the IS estimator is less than the
variance of the original MC estimate;
2) g is easy to sample from;
3) p(x)/g(x) is easy to evaluate.
Generally, fulﬁlling these requirements is not at all trivial. However, in some
cases e.g. when p(x) is a multivariate normal density – that will be used in the
credit risk estimations in Section 7 – these necessities are easily met. For a
more detailed discussion on IS with normally distributed risk factors and its
applications in ﬁnance; see Glasserman (2004) and the references therein.
381
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 410 ---
The density p(x) of a d-dimensional multivariate normal random variable
x, with mean vector h and covariance matrix R, is given by
pðxÞ ¼
1
ð2pÞd=2DetðRÞ1=2 exp  1
2 ðx  ŁÞTR1ðx  ŁÞ
	

With normally distributed risk factors, the application of IS is relatively
straightforward. Impressive results can be obtained by choosing the IS
density, g, as a multivariate normal distribution with mean vector ^Ł and
covariance matrix R, i.e. by simply changing the mean of the original dis-
tribution; see Glasserman et al. (1999).
This choice of g clearly satisﬁes requirement 2) above, but it also satisﬁes
requirement 3) since the density ratio is simply
pðxÞ
gðxÞ ¼
c exp  1
2 ðx  ŁÞTR1ðx  ŁÞ


c exp  1
2 ðx  ^ŁÞTR1ðx  ^ŁÞ

 ¼ exp ð1
2 ð^Ł þ ŁÞ  xÞTR1ð^Ł  ŁÞ
	

ð10:3Þ
where c ¼
1
ð2pÞd=2DetðRÞ1=2. As demonstrated in Section 6.3, an appropriate
choice of ^Ł effectively reduces the variance of the IS estimator in comparison
to the plain MC estimate, thus also satisfying the most important
requirement 1).
6.2 Quasi-Monte Carlo methods
QMC methods can be seen as a deterministic counterpart to the MC
method. They are deterministic methods designed to produce point sets
that cover the d-dimensional unit hypercube as uniformly as possible, see
Niederreiter (1992). By suitable transformations, QMC methods can be
used to approximate many other probability distributions as well. They are
just as easy to use as MC, but they often result in faster convergence of the
approximations, thus reducing the computational burden of simulation
algorithms. For a more thorough treatment of the topic the reader is
referred to Niederreiter 1992 and Glasserman 2004.
It is well known that if the function h(x) is square integrable then the
standard error of the MC sample average approximation ^l is of order
1=
ﬃﬃﬃﬃ
N
p
. This means that cutting the approximation error in half requires
increasing the number of points by a factor of four. In QMC the conver-
gence rate is lnðNÞd1=N, which is asymptotically of order 1/N, which is
382
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 411 ---
much better compared to MC. However, this asymptotic convergence rate
is practically never useful since even for a very moderate dimension d ¼ 4,
N  2.4 · 107 for QMC to be theoretically superior to MC. Fortunately in
many applications, and especially in the ﬁeld of ﬁnancial engineering, QMC
methods produce superior results over MC and the reason for this lies in the
fact that, even though the absolute dimension of the considered problems
could be very high, the effective dimension, i.e. the number of dimensions
that account for the most of the variation in the value of the integrand, is
often quite low. For a formal deﬁnition of the term effective dimension
see e.g. Caﬂisch et al. (1997) and L’Ecuyer (2004). Therefore, obtaining
good approximations for these important dimensions, e.g. using QMC, can
signiﬁcantly improve the accuracy of the resulting estimates. These effects
will be demonstrated in the next section.
The uniformity properties of QMC point sets deteriorate as a function of
the dimension. In high-dimensional integration the fact that the QMC point
sets are most uniformly distributed in low dimensions can be further utilized:
1) by approximating the ﬁrst few (1–10) dimensions with QMC and the
remaining dimensions with MC; and
2) by transforming the function h so that its expected value and variance
remain unchanged in the MC setting, but its effective dimension (in
some sense) is reduced so that the ﬁrst few dimensions account for the
most variability of h.
Detailed descriptions for implementing 2) in case the risk factors are
normally distributed, as is done here, are described in L’Ecuyer (2004), and
a procedure based on principal component analysis (PCA) (Acworth et al.
1997) is also outlined and applied in the following.
The fact that QMC point sets are completely deterministic makes error
estimation very difﬁcult, compared to MC. Fortunately, this problem can be
rectiﬁed by using randomized QMC (RQMC) methods. To enable practical
error estimation for QMC a number of randomization techniques have been
proposed in the literature; see L’Ecuyer and Lemieux (2002) for an excellent
survey. An easy way of randomizing any QMC point set, suggested by
Cranley and Patterson (1976), is to shift it randomly, modulo 1, with
respect to all of the coordinates. After the randomization each individual
sample point is uniformly distributed over the sample space, but the point
set as a whole still preserves its regular structure. Randomizing QMC point
sets allows one to view them as variance reduction techniques which often
produce signiﬁcant variance reductions with respect to MC in empirical
applications, see e.g. L’Ecuyer (2004).
383
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 412 ---
The best-suited combination of the described variance reduction tech-
niques for Credit VaR calculations has to be further speciﬁed based on
empirical ﬁndings.
6.3 Empirical results on variance reduction
This section studies the empirical performance of the different variance
reduction techniques by estimating portfolio level ES ﬁgures caused by
credit events, i.e. defaults, using the following simpliﬁed assumptions: The
portfolio contains d ¼ 100 issuers distributed equally within the four dif-
ferent rating categories AAA, AA, A and BBB. The issuer PDs are all equal
within the rating classes and the applied rating class speciﬁc default prob-
abilities are presented in Table 10.1. For simplicity, the asset price correl-
ation between every issuer is assumed to be either 0.24 or 0.5. The value of
the portfolio is arbitrarily chosen to be 1000 and it is invested evenly across
all the issuers. The recovery ratio is assumed to be 40 per cent of the
notional amount invested in each issuer. The Credit VaR will be estimated
over an annual horizon at a conﬁdence level of 99 per cent.
The general simulation algorithm can be described as follows:
1. Draw a point set of uniformly distributed random numbers
UN ¼ fu1; . . . ; uNg
½0; 1Þd
2. Decompose the issuer asset correlation matrix as R ¼ CCT, for some
matrix C.
For i ¼ 1 to N:
3. Transform ui, component by component, to a normally distributed
random variable xi through inversion xi ¼ U1ðu j
i Þ; where U1
denotes the inverse of the cumulative standard normal distribution and
i ¼ 1, . . . ,N, j ¼ 1, . . . ,d,
4. Set ~xi ¼ Cxi þ ^Ł, where ^Ł is the mean vector of the shifted density g.
Now ~x  Uð^Ł; RÞ
5. Identify defaulted issuers Yj ¼ 1f~xj;i>zjg, j ¼ 1, . . . ,d
6. Calculate the portfolio loss hðn; ~xiÞ ¼ c1Y1 þ · · · þ cdYd
End
Find the estimate ESaðnÞ ¼ min
m2R m þ ð1  aÞ1 1
N
P
N
i¼1
e0:5ð^Ł~xiÞTR1 ^Ł hðn; ~xiÞ  m
½
þ
In step 1) the point set can be simply an MC sample or a sample generated
through an arbitrary RQMC method. In step 2) the most common choice for
C is the Cholesky factorization which takes C to be a lower triangular matrix.
384
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 413 ---
Another possibility is to select C based on a standard principal component
analysis (PCA) which concentrates the variance, as much as possible, to the
ﬁrst coordinates of x, with the aim of reducing the effective dimension of the
problem. This choice yields C ¼ QD1/2, where D is a diagonal matrix con-
taining the eigenvalues of R in decreasing order, and Q is an orthogonal
matrix whose columns are the corresponding unit-length eigenvectors.
Even though this technique completely ignores the function h whose
expectation we are trying to estimate, it has proven empirically to perform
well in combination with (R)QMC techniques; see Acworth et al. (1997),
Moskowitz and Caﬂisch (1996) and L’Ecuyer (2004). In step 5) 1{.} is an
indicator function, in 6) ci denotes loss given default for issuer i in monetary
terms, and the ﬁnal expression for the ES is obtained simply by combining
(10.2) and (10.3) with Ł ¼ 0.
The simulation experiments are undertaken with a sample size of
N¼5000 and the simulation trials are repeated 100 times to enable the
computation of error estimates for RQMC methods. The numerical results
presented below were obtained using a randomized Sobol sequence,16 but
comparable results were also achieved with e.g. Korobov lattice rules. The
accuracy of the different variance reduction techniques are compared by
reporting variance reduction factors with respect to plain MC sampling for
all the considered methods. This factor is computed as the ratio of the
estimator variance with the plain MC method and the variance achieved
with an alternative simulation method.
Figure 10.5 illustrates the variance reduction factors achieved with the
importance sampling approach described in Section 6.1, where the mean
Ł ¼ 0 of the d-dimensional standard normally distributed variable x will be
shifted to ^Ł. The results show that the simple importance sampling scheme
can reduce the estimator variance by a factor of 40 and 200 for an asset
correlation of 0.24 and 0.50, respectively. Figure 10.5 also illustrates,
reassuringly, that the variance reduction factors are fairly robust with
respect to the size of the mean shift, but shifting the mean too aggressively
can also substantially increase the estimator variance. The highest variance
reductions are obtained with the mean shifts equalling 1.3 and 1.8 in case of
0.24 and 0.5 asset correlation assumptions, respectively.
As indicated above, additional variance reduction may be achieved by
combining importance sampling with RQMC and dimension reduction
techniques. Tables 10.3 and 10.4 report the results of such experiments
16 See: Sobol (1967).
385
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 414 ---
under the asset correlation assumption of 0.24 and 0.5, respectively. In
addition to MC, three different combinations of variance reduction tech-
niques are considered, namely Monte Carlo with importance sampling
(MCþIS), a combination of MC and randomized Sobol sequence with IS
(SOBþIS) where the ﬁrst ﬁve dimensions are approximated with Sobol
point sets and the remaining ones with MC,17 and ﬁnally SOBþIS com-
bined with the PCA dimension reduction technique to pack the variance as
much as possible to the ﬁrst dimensions which are hopefully well
approximated with the Sobol points (SOBþISþPCA).
The results in Table 10.3 and Table 10.4 show that all the applied tech-
niques produce signiﬁcant variance reduction factors (VRF) with respect to
MC and the VRFs grow substantially as the conﬁdence level increases from
99 per cent to 99.9 per cent. In all experiments SOBþISþPCA produces the
highest VRFs and the effectiveness of the PCA decomposition increases with
the asset correlation which reduces the effective dimension of the problem
as the asset prices tend to ﬂuctuate more closely together.
The conducted experiments indicate that, among the considered variance
reduction techniques, the implementation based on SOBþISþPCA pro-
duces the highest VRFs and therefore this is the simulation approach chosen
to derive residual risk estimates for the Eurosystem’s credit operations.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
Mean shift (θ)   
Variance reduction factor
0
50
100
150
200
250
Variance reduction factor
ρ = 0.24 (left-hand scale)
ρ = 0.50 (right-hand scale)
ˆ
Figure 10.5
Variance reduction factors, for varying values of ^Ł and asset correlations.
17 Empirical tests indicated that extending the application of Sobol point sets to higher dimensions than five, generally
had a detrimental effect on the accuracy of the results. Tests also showed that applying antithetic variates instead of
plain MC does not improve the results further. Therefore, plain MC is used for the other dimensions.
386
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 415 ---
7. Residual risk estimation for the Eurosystem’s credit operations
This section presents the results of the residual risk estimations for the
Eurosystem’s credit operations. The most important data source used for
these risk estimations is a snapshot on disaggregated data on submitted
collateral that was taken in November 2006. This data contains information
on the amount of speciﬁc assets submitted by each single counterparty as
collateral to the Eurosystem. In total, Eurosystem counterparties submitted
collateral of around EUR 928 billion to the Eurosystem.
For technical reasons, the dimension of the problem needs to be reduced
without impacting the risk calculations. The total collateral amount is
spread over more than 18,000 different counterparty–issuer pairs. To reduce
the dimension of the problem, only those pairs are considered where the
submitted collateral amount is at least EUR 100 million. As a consequence,
the number of issuers is reduced to 445 and the number of counterparties is
reduced to 247. With this approach, only 64 per cent of the total collateral
submitted is taken into account. Therefore, after the risk calculations, the
resulting risks need to be scaled up accordingly.
Table 10.4 Comparison of various variance reduction techniques with 0.5 asset correlation
MC
MC þ IS
SOB þ IS
SOB þ IS þ PCA
ES99%
29.049
29.368
29.418
29.409
r2
99%
21.539
0.106
0.075
0.051
VRF99%
1
202
286
422
ES99.9%
83.544
85.915
85.935
85.911
r2
99.9%
586.523
0.816
0.381
0.184
VRF99.9%
1
719
1540
3186
Table 10.3 Comparison of various variance reduction techniques with 0.24 asset correlation
MC
MC þ IS
SOB þ IS
SOB þ IS þ PCA
ES99%
16.629
16.612
16.545
16.575
r2
99%
1.809
0.045
0.038
0.035
VRF99%
1
40
47
51
ES99.9%
33.960
34.300
34.157
34.198
r2
99.9%
41.323
0.239
0.204
0.120
VRF99.9%
1
173
202
343
387
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 416 ---
The other assumptions used for the risk estimations were discussed in
Sections 2 and 3. In the following, the most important ones are brieﬂy
recalled. The annual PDs of the counterparties and issuers are derived from
the credit ratings on a second-best basis. These annual PDs are scaled down
linearly according to the time it takes to liquidate the least liquid instrument
that has been submitted from the issuer. The same liquidation times are
used as those applied for the derivation of haircut levels (see Table 10.2).
With regard to the recovery rate in case of an issuer default, a uniform
recovery rate of 40 per cent is assumed for all the assets. For the default
correlation between and across counterparties and issuers only one uniform
level of correlation of 24 per cent is assumed. To take account of granularity
in the counterparties’ collateral pools, a granularity adjustment of 11 per
cent for credit risks is made.18
The necessary assumptions for the calculation of liquidity-related risk are
the following: as regards the distributional assumption for price move-
ments, a normal distribution for price changes is assumed. Concerning the
assumption on price volatility, the same weekly volatility of 1.2 per cent is
assumed for all the assets in the collateral pool.
Another important assumption for the risk calculations is that it is
assumed that there is no over-collateralization. This means that the amount
of submitted collateral equals the amount lent to the bank. Since there is
normally some voluntary over-collateralization, this presents a conservative
assumption.
Section 7.1 summarizes the results of the residual risk estimations when
using (conservative) assumptions under normal conditions. Section 7.2
illustrates some possible developments in risk under ‘stress’ conditions.
Section 7.3 presents an application of the model to show the development in
risks over time.
7.1 Expected shortfall in a base case scenario
In the base case scenario, residual risks are at a very low level. As can be seen
from Table 10.5, ES at a 99 per cent conﬁdence level is only around EUR
18.8 million for the total amount of assets submitted to the Eurosystem.
This corresponds to 0.2 basis points of total lending. As regards the
breakdown into different asset categories, by far the biggest share of EUR
13.2 million is allotted to bonds issued by banks. For this asset category, the
18 Technically, this is done by scaling up the resulting credit risk by a factor of 1.11.
388
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 417 ---
ES in relation to the total amount submitted of this asset category is 0.32
basis points.
With respect to the distribution into credit risk and liquidity-related
risks, around EUR 16 million are due to credit risk while only EUR 2.8
million result from liquidity-related risks.
These results suggest that the risks stemming from Eurosystem collateral
operations are very low. This is on one hand certainly due to the risk
mitigation of the risk control framework, but on the other hand, the risks
are also at such a low level because the average credit quality of issuers and
counterparties can be considered as good.
7.2 Stability of risk calculations in terms of assumptions
This section presents the risk implications of isolated changes of different
key input parameters. The charts in Figures 10.6 to 10.8 illustrate these
effects for the following cases: i) a change in the liquidation time assump-
tions; ii) a change in the assumptions on the credit quality of issuers and
counterparties; and iii) a change in the assumptions on issuer-counterparty
correlations, respectively. All the three charts show the development of ES in
basis points of total lending in relation to a change in the respective par-
ameter. All the other relevant input parameters for the risk estimations are
chosen according to the base case scenario (see Section 7.1).
A change in the liquidation time assumptions has both effects on credit
and on liquidity-related risks. If it takes longer to liquidate the instrument,
the time that the issuer might default is longer and therefore the credit risk
increases. At the same time, a higher liquidation time assumption leads to
a higher price volatility and therefore affects the liquidity-related risks.
Tabel 10.5 Breakdown of residual risks in the base case scenario
Asset categories
ES (in EUR mn)
ES in relation to total lending
(in basis points)
Bank bonds
13.2
0.32
Government bonds
2.1
0.07
ABS
1.3
0.13
Corporate bonds
1.0
0.26
Other
1.2
0.18
All categories
18.8
0.2
Source: own calculations.
389
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 418 ---
In sum, the overall effect of a higher liquidation time is a roughly linear
increase in risks. This relationship is also illustrated in Figure 10.6. The
values on the x-axis of this chart have to be read as follows: ‘1’ means that it
takes exactly the time as deﬁned in the risk control framework to orderly
liquidate these assets. ‘2’ means that it takes twice the time as deﬁned in the
risk control framework to orderly liquidate them, and so on.
A change in the assumptions on the credit quality of issuers and coun-
terparties, measured in changed assumptions on the PDs for both the issuers
and the counterparties, has also effects both on credit and liquidity-related
risks. Liquidity-related risks increase because of the higher likelihood of a
counterparty default. The increase in credit risk is quite obvious. It is both
motivated by the higher PDs for counterparties and for issuers. As illustrated
in Figure 10.7, a simultaneous increase in the assumption on the PD for the
counterparties and issuers results in a roughly quadratic risk increase.
Finally, the risk effects of a change in the assumptions on issuer-counterparty
correlations are illustrated in Figure 10.8. It shows that risks grow roughly
exponentially with increasing correlation. This relationship is especially of
interest as regards the impact of high sector concentration in the Euro-
system’s collateral that was discussed in Section 4. It shows the possible
effects on ES if the sector concentration between counterparties and issuers
is high. Moreover, the average issuer–counterparty correlation would have
to be adjusted upwards if counterparties submitted a sizeable amount of
assets from issuers with which they have close links. Since the increase in ES
would be signiﬁcant for a higher average correlation level, it is appropriate
0
1
2
3
1
2
3
4
5
Times the assumed liquidation time
ES in basis points of total lending (bps) 
Figure 10.6
The effect on Expected Shortfall of changed liquidation time assumptions.
Source: own calculations.
390
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 419 ---
that the Eurosystem does in principle not foresee the existence of close links
in its collateral operations.
It should be kept in mind that normally one of these three input par-
ameters does not change in an isolated way but that for example a drying-up
of liquidity conditions could as well be accompanied by a concurrent
deterioration in credit quality of counterparties and issuers. Therefore, the
residual risks for Eurosystem credit operations could increase quite dra-
matically under such circumstances. Such developments can be simulated in
stress scenarios.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Annual PD
ES in basis points of total lending (bps) 
Figure 10.7
The effect on Expected Shortfall of changed credit quality assumptions.
Source: ECB’s own calculations.
0
2
4
6
8
10
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Issuer–counterparty correlation
ES in basis points of total lending (bps) 
Figure 10.8
The effect on Expected Shortfall of changed assumptions on issuer-counterparty correlations.
391
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 420 ---
7.3 Risk development over time
Finally, the model may be used in order to quantify the development in
residual ﬁnancial risks over time. Table 10.6 illustrates the development and
composition of collateral over time. It can be seen that between 2001 and 2006
the total amount of submitted collateral has increased by around 30 per cent.
While the amount of government bonds has remained stable over time,
especially the more risky asset categories like bank bonds, corporate bonds and
ABS are now submitted to a larger extent to the Eurosystem than ﬁve years ago.
For the computation of residual risks over time, some simplifying
assumptions need to be made since for the previous years no information on a
disaggregated level for the submitted collateral was available for the purposes
of this study. Therefore, it is assumed that the average credit quality of the
counterparties and collateral issuers is the same as the one observed in 2006,
and the assumptions for the other important input parameters are the same as
the one assumed for the estimation of residual risks for 2006 in the base case
scenario (see Section 7.1).
The resulting residual ﬁnancial risks are also presented in Table 10.6.19 It
can be seen that overall risks grow by 45 per cent. The increase in risks is on
one hand due to the higher absolute amount of submitted collateral and on
the other hand it is because of the higher share of more risky collateral in the
pool. While government bonds for example had a share of around 13 per cent
in overall ﬁnancial risks in 2001, their share has now decreased to less than
9 per cent.
Tabel 10.6 Composition of submitted collateral over time and composition of residual ﬁnancial risks over time
Total submitted collateral (in EUR billion)
Residual ﬁnancial risks (in EUR million)
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
Bank bonds
337
343
347
379
418
467
10.7
10.9
11.1
12.1
13.3
14.9
Government
bonds
269
255
186
311
299
262
1.8
1.7
1.3
2.1
2.0
1.8
ABS
45
83
109
0.6
1.1
1.5
Corporate
bonds
21
28
33
28
46
61
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.7
1.2
1.6
Other
61
50
164
55
54
53
1.1
0.9
2.9
1.0
1.0
0.9
19 The figures reported for 2006 differ slightly from the figures presented in Section 7.1 since for the computation of
residual risks the annual average of submitted collateral was taken, while for the risk estimations in Section 7 the data
is based on a one time data snapshot taken in November 2006.
392
Heinle, E. and Koivu, M.

--- Página 421 ---
8. Conclusions
This chapter has presented an approach to estimate tail risk measures for a
portfolio of collateralized lending operations. The general method was
applied to quantitatively assess the residual ﬁnancial risks for the Euro-
system’s collateralized lending operations. The risk measure chosen was ES
at the 99 per cent quantile of the loss distribution over an annual horizon.
In order to avoid making distributional assumptions on the shape of the
credit loss distribution, ES was estimated on a Eurosystem-wide basis by
using sophisticated Monte Carlo simulation techniques.
Overall, risk taking from policy operations appears very low. Risk esti-
mations in a base case scenario revealed that ES in relation to the total
amount of collateral submitted amounts to only around 0.2 basis points.
This corresponds to an absolute exposure of EUR 18.8 million. However,
when incorporating trends in collateral use with stressed assumptions, risks
are driven up considerably. Especially, a rise in the correlation between
issuers and counterparties or a deterioration of average credit quality leads
to signiﬁcant increases in risks.
In view of the size of the Eurosystem’s monetary policy operations
portfolio, a regular quantitative assessment of the residual risks is necessary
in order to check if the collateral framework ensures that the risk taken in
reﬁnancing operations is in line with a central bank’s risk tolerance. Finally,
the quantiﬁcation of these risks is also an important step towards a more
comprehensive and integrated central bank risk management.
393
Risk measurement for a repo portfolio

--- Página 422 ---
11
Central bank ﬁnancial crisis
management from a risk
management perspective
Ulrich Bindseil
1. Introduction1
Providing emergency liquidity assistance (ELA) or being the lender of last
resort (LOLR) are considered to be amongst the most important tasks of
central banks, and literature on the topic is correspondingly abundant (see
e.g. Freixas et al. 1999, for an overview). To avoid confusion relating to
the speciﬁc deﬁnitions given and uses made of these terms in the literature
and in the central banking community, this chapter uses the broad con-
cept of ‘central bank ﬁnancial crisis management’ (FCM), which encom-
passes ELA and LOLR. Apart from some important general clariﬁcations
of direct usefulness for the practitioner (from Bagehot 1873 to e.g.
Goodhart 1999), the literature on FCM takes mainly an academic per-
spective of microeconomic theory (e.g. Freixas and Rochet 1997; Repullo
2000; Freixas et al. 2003; Caballero and Krishnamurthy 2007).2 While this
microeconomic modelling of the functioning of FCM is certainly relevant,
doing practical FCM at the right moment and in the right way requires
more than that. In particular, it requires three disciplines of applied
central banking, namely central bank liquidity management, central bank
risk management and prudential supervision. The role of risk management
has been stressed recently by W. Buiter and A. Sibert in their internet blog
posted on 12 August 2007, just days after the break-out of the ﬁnancial
market turmoil:
1 I wish to thank Denis Blenck. Fernando Gonzalez, Jose Manuel Go´nzalez-Pa´ramo, Paul de Grauwe, Elke Heinle, Han
van der Hoorn, Fernando Monar, Benjamin Sahel, Jens Tapking, and Flemming Wu¨rtz for useful comments.
Remaining mistakes remain mine of course.
2 See Goodhart and Illing (2002) for a comprehensive panorama of views on ﬁnancial crises, contagion and the lender-
of-last-resort role of central banks.
394

--- Página 423 ---
A credit crunch and liquidity squeeze is . . . the time for central banks to get their
hands dirty and take socially necessary risks which are not part and parcel of the art
of central banking during normal times when markets are orderly. Making mon-
etary policy under conditions of orderly markets is really not that hard. Any group
of people with IQs in three digits (individually) and familiar with (almost) any
intermediate macroeconomics textbook could do the job. Dealing with a liquidity
crisis and credit crunch is hard. Inevitably, it exposes the central bank to signiﬁcant
ﬁnancial and reputational risk. The central banks will be asked to take credit risk (of
unknown) magnitude onto their balance sheets and they will have to make explicit
judgments about the creditworthiness of various counterparties. But without taking
these risks the central banks will be ﬁnancially and reputationally safe, but poor
servants of the public interest.
This chapter attempts to summarize and structure some key messages from
the academic literature, to the extent they seem important for practice. It
appears plausible that central bank ﬁnancial operations in times of crisis
imply, or are even inherently associated with, particular risk taking, and that
considerations underlying FCM decisions must therefore follow also a risk
management philosophy and related technical considerations. As it will
become clear, risk management considerations will not only be relevant for
the practice of FCM, but also shed a new light on existing academic debate.
Noticing that the recent literature does not pay much attention to risk
management aspects does not mean that this issue has always been neg-
lected. At the contrary, the founding fathers of the concept of FCM,
Thornton (1802 – see quotation in Goodhart 1999, 340), Harman (1832,
quoted e.g. in King 1936, 36 – ‘We lent . . . by every possible means con-
sistent with the safety of the Bank’), and Bagehot (1873) were all clear that
liquidity assistance should only be granted subject to, as one would say
today, adequate risk control measures, such as to protect the Bank of
England against possible losses. For instance Bagehot (1873) explained:
These advances should be made on all good banking securities, and as largely as the
public ask for them . . . No advances indeed need be made by which the Bank will
ultimately lose. The amount of bad business in commercial countries is an inﬁni-
tesimally small fraction of the whole business. That in a panic the bank, or banks,
holding the ultimate reserve should refuse bad bills or bad securities will not make
the panic really worse.
Besides providing further insights on long-debated FCM issues, studying
risk management aspects of FCM is also a crucial contribution to an efﬁ-
cient FCM framework, since once a potential need for FCM occurs, time for
analysis will be scarce, and facts will be complex and opaque. In such a
395
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 424 ---
situation, it can only help if all risk management policies and procedures for
FCM have been thought through, been documented internally and under-
stood, even if one would take the view that the policies should neither be
mechanistic, nor fully known to the outside world to prevent moral hazard.
The rest of this chapter proceeds as follows. Section 2 provides a typology
of FCM cases, to clarify the subject of this paper, and since a great amount
of confusion often exists in public debate on what FCM exactly is. Section 3
summarizes, mainly from a risk management perspective, a number of key
conclusions of the FCM literature. Section 4 argues that a ﬁrst crucial
central bank contribution to ﬁnancial stability lies in the normal operational
framework of the central bank. Section 5 develops the ‘inertia’ principle of
central bank risk management under crisis situation, which provides the
bridge between central bank risk management under normal circumstances
and FCM actions. Section 6 discusses, again largely from a risk management
perspective, FCM providing equal access to all central bank counterparties
to some exceptional form of liquidity provision. Section 7 discusses ELA/
LOLR to single banks under conditions granted only to this bank. Section 8
summarizes and draws some key conclusions.
2. Typology of ﬁnancial crisis management measures
Often, the literature and public debate on FCM is astonishingly imprecise
on what type of FCM operations it has in mind, although this makes a big
difference in every respect. Hence, conclusions seem often naı¨ve or wrong –
again in the summer of 2007. It is for instance difﬁcult to ﬁnd a clear
commonly agreed distinction in the literature between ELA and LOLR.
Here, it is therefore simply assumed that the two are equivalent, and only
the expression ‘ELA’ is used. The following typology encompasses all FCM
measures of central banks. It essentially distinguishes between three types of
measures whereby the ﬁrst type is further subdivided. Consider each type of
FCM measures in more detail.
A Equal access FCM measures
This type of FCM measures is equally addressed to all banks with which a
central bank normally operates. It may also be called ‘ex ante’ FCM or
‘preventive’ FCM, as it is undertaken before single banks need speciﬁc
liquidity help due to actual illiquidity.
396
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 425 ---
A-I Aggregate excess liquidity injection through normal open market
operations (OMOs). Demand for excess reserves is normally rather
limited in modern ﬁnancial systems with reliable payment systems (see
Bindseil et al. 2006). However, under ﬁnancial stress, banks tend to
demand excess liquidity, and if the central bank would not offer it, at
least interbank short-term rates would go up. Therefore, at various
occasions (Bank of England 1825, Y2K transition, days after 11
September 2001, second half of 2007), central banks have massively
injected reserves to satisfy exceptional demand for excess reserves and
to thereby calm down the market and contribute to avoid potential
illiquidity of some banks.
A-II Narrowing the spread of the borrowing facility vis-a`-vis the target rate.
In case that liquidity and/or infrastructure problems force banks to
use extensively the borrowing facility, the central bank may want to
alleviate associated costs by lowering the penalty rate applied on the
borrowing facility. The ECB did so for instance for the ﬁrst two weeks
of the euro (in January 1999), and the Fed in August 2007.
A-III Widening of collateral set. While ELA to individual banks typically
involves accepting unusual collateral (since otherwise the central
bank borrowing facility could do the job), it can also be conceived
that the collateral set is widened on an aggregate basis, i.e. maintaining
equal access of all central bank counterparties. For instance, in case of a
liquidity crisis and lack of collateral, the central bank could increase
available collateral by accepting a class of paper normally not accepted
(e.g. Equity), or it could lower rating requirements for an existing
asset class (require a BBB rating instead of an A rating). In case of
two separate collateral sets for open market operations (narrow set)
and standing facilities (wider set), a measure could also be to accept
exceptionally the latter set for open market operations.
A-IV Other special liquidity supplying operations to address a liquidity problem
in the market. For instance, after 11 September 2001, the ECB provided
dollar liquidity to euro area banks through a special swap operation
(see press release of ECB dated 13 September 2001) and in December
2007 it again provided US dollars, but this time against euro-
denominated collateral (see press release of 12 December 2007).
Typically, international banks operate in several key markets (e.g. USD,
EUR), and have collateral in each market, but there are normally no
bridges between the collateral sets, increasing the vulnerability to
liquidity shocks.
397
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 426 ---
B Individual access FCM measures
Once a single bank can no longer fulﬁll its payment duties, or anticipates
that this state becomes unavoidable in the near future, unless it obtains help,
it may turn to the central bank to obtain the necessary help. This is normally
associated with the terms ‘ELA’ or ‘LOLR’, although these terms are also
used sometimes in a looser way, encompassing equal access FCM measures.
ELA as understood here may also be called an ex post FCM measures,
because it is provided after a liquidity problem has concretely materialized.
Giving up the principle of equal treatment is of course something con-
sidered undesirable, and will have to be counterbalanced by making the
bank(s) concerned pay some high price, also for incentive / moral hazard
reasons. Emergency liquidity assistance to single banks often cannot be
separated from potential solvency assistance, since (i) liquidity problems
tend to correlate with solvency; (ii) the reasons to support banks through
ELA are not fundamentally different from those to also save insolvent
banks. As an old ﬁnancial stability saying goes: ‘A bank alive is worth more
for society than a dead bank, even if its net worth is negative.’3
C Organize emergency/solvency assistance to be provided
by other ﬁnancial institutions.
The most important motivation for the central bank’s (or another public
agent’s) ELA or solvency assistance to individual banks is the negative
externality of a bank failure (see the next section). Therefore, the failure of
the banking system to address this on its own may be interpreted as a
Coasean social cost problem (Coase 1960), in which transaction costs (due
e.g. to asymmetric information, high number of agents, etc.) preclude
economic actors to agree on the socially optimal outcome. The ‘state’ (in
this case the central bank) can address such failures either by acting itself, or
by contributing to reduce the transaction costs of reaching a private
agreement, such that negative externalities are avoided. Indeed, in the case
of individual ELA or solvency assistance, often central bank action consists
in bringing a group of ﬁnancial institutions together which would bear,
together, a large part of the costs of the failure, and by making them agree to
support the bank, which is eventually also in their interest.
3 Solvency assistance by the Government, including e.g. nationalization by the Government, may also be considered to
fall under this type of FCM measures. However, this chapter does not elaborate on these cases in detail.
398
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 427 ---
In the rest of this paper, the above-proposed typology will be followed.
Deviating from other attempts to typologize FCM measures (e.g. Daniel
et al. 2004, 14 for the Bank of Canada), the typology proposed here does not
consider the following two measures as ELA measures on their own. First,
lowering the short-term monetary policy target interest rate seems to be only
indirectly linked to liquidity problems. Indeed, it does not address them,
but may only be associated with them because liquidity problems may
worsen the macroeconomic outlook and thus create deﬂationary pressures
(and thereby justify rate cuts), or the reason for liquidity problems may be a
macroeconomic shock that is at the same time the justiﬁcation of a lowering
of interest rates from the monetary policy perspective. Second, communi-
cating in itself is also not considered a direct ﬁnancial crisis management
measure. For instance Daniel et al. (2004, 14) explains that ‘in times of
heightened ﬁnancial stress, the Bank can also reinforce its actions through
public statements that indicate that the Bank stands ready to ensure the
availability of sufﬁcient liquidity in the ﬁnancial system’. This was done for
instance by the Fed after the stock market crash of 12 October 1987, or by
both the Fed and the ECB as an immediate reaction on 11 September 2001.
However, verbal communications are not measures on their own, but only
relevant as far as associated with possible implied central bank actions. In so
far, each type of action described above has its corresponding communi-
cation dimension. Table 11.1 summarizes again the proposed typology,
including examples from the period July to December 2007.
3. Review of some key results of the literature
This section reviews some of the main conclusions of the FCM literature. As
far as relevant, it takes a risk management perspective, although for some of
the issues, there is no such speciﬁc perspective. Still, it was deemed useful to
summarize brieﬂy how these key issues are understood here.
3.1 Key lessons retained from nineteenth-century experience
The origins of modern ELA/FCM theories are usually traced back to
Bagehot (1873), and, as Goodhart (e.g. 1999) remarks, to Thornton (1802).
The main conclusions of these authors are summarized (again, e.g. by
Goodhart 1999) as (i) lend freely in times of crisis; (ii) do so at a high
interest rate; (iii) but only against good collateral/securities. Amongst the
399
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 428 ---
classical quotes on the topic, one is in fact due to a central banker, and not
to Bagehot: an eventual wilful massive injection of liquidity in a ﬁnancial
panic situation by the Bank of England in 1825 was summarized in the
words of Bank member Jeremiah Harman in the Lords’ Committee in 1832
(quoted from King 1936, 36, but also to be found in Bagehot 1873):
We lent . . . by every possible means, and in modes that we never had adopted
before; we took in stock of security, we purchased Exchequer bills, we made
advances on Exchequer bills, we not only discounted outright, but we made
advances on deposits of bills to an immense amount; in short, by every possible
means consistent with the safety of the Bank; . . . seeing the dreadful state in which
the public were, we rendered every assistance in our power.
Table 11.1 FCM typology and illustration from August–December 2007
(A) Equal access
FCM measures
(‘ex ante FCM’)
(A-I) Inject aggregate excess liquidity through OMOs. Example: ECB
injects EUR 95 billion on 9 August 2007 through a spontaneous ﬁxed rate
tender with full allotment at the overnight target rate.
(A-II) Reduce penalty associated with standing facilities. Example: Fed
lowers on 17 August 2007 the discount rate by 50 basis points, such as to
half the spread vis-a`-vis the Fed founds target rate.
(A-III) Widening collateral set. Examples: (1) Bank of Canada
announces on 15 August 2007 that it will accept the broader collateral
set for its borrowing facility also for open market operations. (2) On 6
September 2007, the Federal Reserve Bank of Australia announces that it
will accept ABCPs (asset backed commercial paper) as collateral. (3) On
19 September the BoE announces to accept MBS paper for special open
market operations. (4) On 12 December 2007, the Fed announces that it
will conduct for the ﬁrst time in history open market operations (reverse
repos) against the broad set of collateral eligible for discount window
operations; At the same time, Fed accepts a wide set of counterparties for
the ﬁrst time in an open market operation; (5) On the same date, the
Bank of Canada and the Bank of England widen again their collateral
sets for reverse repo open market operations.
(A-IV) Non-standard operations, including cross-currency. On 12
December 2007, the Swiss National Bank and the ECB announce that
they would provide USD funds for 28 days against collateral denomi-
nated in euro (and Swiss Franks).
(B) Individual access FCM (ELA). On 14 September 2007, the Bank of England provides ELA to
Northern Rock PLC.
(C) Organize emergency/solvency assistance to be provided by other ﬁnancial institutions.
Implemented in Germany for IKB on 31 July 2007, and for Sachsen LB on 17 August 2007.
400
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 429 ---
Three details are noteworthy in this statement, which maybe have been
noted too little in the recent literature. First, Harman distinguishes explicitly
between collateralized lending to banks, and outright purchases of secur-
ities, which have rather different risk properties, and different implications
with regard to the dictum ‘lend at high prices’, since this seems to apply
potentially only to collateralized lending (‘advances’). Second, the liquidity
injection is not only against good banking securities, but ‘in modes never
adopted before’, and ‘by every means consistent with the safety of the bank’. In
other words, the only constraint was a central bank risk management
constraint, but not an a priori constraint on the types of securities to be
accepted. The quotation seems to suggest that ﬁnding these unusual modes
to inject liquidity with limited ﬁnancial risk for the central bank was con-
sidered the key challenge in these operations. Third, Harman does not
mention as a crucial issue the ‘high rate of interest’, and indeed, as supported
by some recent commentators (e.g. Goodhart 1999, 341), a high level of
interest rates charged should not be the worry in such circumstances, not
even from an incentive point of view.
It seems noteworthy that earlier statements on the principles of ﬁnancial
crisis management are mainly about aggregate liquidity injection into the
ﬁnancial system under circumstances of a collective ﬁnancial market liquidity
crisis (i.e. case A in the typology introduced in Section 2), and not about ELA
in the narrow sense, i.e. support to an individual institution which has run
into trouble due to its speciﬁc lack of proﬁtability or position taking (type B
of liquidity provision). Most authors today writing on ELA or LOLR do not
note this difference, i.e. they start with Thornton or Bagehot when intro-
ducing the topic, but then focus on individual access FCM measures.
Today, the set of eligible assets for central bank borrowing facilities tends
to be rather wide, and access is not constrained in any other way than by
collateral availability. So one could say that for the type of FCM Thornton
and Bagehot had in mind, central banks have gone a long way to incorp-
orate them into a well-speciﬁed and transparent framework. Moreover, it is
undisputed amongst central bankers today that liquidity absorption due to
autonomous factor shocks (see e.g. Bindseil 2004, 60) should be fully
neutralized through open market operations.
3.2 The nature of liquidity problems of banks
A key feature of banks is that their assets are largely illiquid (in particular
under stressed ﬁnancial market conditions), while their liabilities comprise
401
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 430 ---
to a considerable extent short-term deposits by non-banks (and to a lesser
extent by other banks) and short-term paper (see e.g. Freixas et al. 1999, or
Freixas and Rochet 1997). This feature makes them susceptible to a run: if
there is a belief that the bank has a solvency problem, customers may start
rushing to withdraw their deposits. Since the ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst-served
principle applies, rumours that a bank has problems are sufﬁcient to trigger
a run and to become self-fulﬁlling. The same will hold for unsecured
interbank lending: a bank which is considered to have an increased likeli-
hood of defaulting for whatever reason will see other banks cutting down
rapidly credit lines to this bank. The bank run problem has been modelled
ﬁrst by Diamond and Dybvig (1983), with a very extensive subsequent
literature (see e.g. Caballero and Krishnamurthy 2007, for a recent related
paper). The breakdown of the interbank market may be considered a
classical adverse selection problem (see e.g. Flannery 1996).
As long as the bank has high-quality collateral which is accepted easily in
interbank markets (e.g. Government ﬁxed-income securities), it should
always be in a position to obtain liquidity. Such collateral is typically also
the kind of asset that could be sold outright relatively easily and without
losses at short notice, even if markets are stressed. Only if such assets are
exhausted, may the liquidity situation of the bank may turn critical. In
principle, it may be able to sell or pledge more credit risky assets at short
notice, but only at a substantial discount, to reﬂect that those who are
supposed to take them over quickly cannot analyse their value at short
notice (implying a ‘conservative’ valuation). A substantial discount in asset
ﬁre sales may also put the solvency of the bank further at risk, aggravating
the bank’s crisis. The ‘correlation’ between liquidity problems and solvency
problems is thus based on a two-sided causality, which may develop its own
dynamic. First, a bank with solvency problems of which depositors or other
banks become suspicious will also quickly face liquidity problems since
depositors or short-term paper holder will not want to prolong their
investments due to the perceived high credit risk. Second, a bank with
liquidity problems which needs to do asset ﬁre sales to address these
problems will see its net value deteriorate due to the losses associated with
the discounts to be made to achieve the ﬁre sales.
Daniel et al. (2004, 7) highlight that widespread liquidity problems of
banks may also arise out of pure extra caution in view of some external
developments: when lending institutions become concerned that their own
sources of liquidity may be less reliable than usual, banks may reduce the
volume of funds that they lend in the interbank market, setting up a
402
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 431 ---
situation of self-fulﬁlling expectations of liquidity hoarding, even if there is
no credit quality issue at the origin. Only indirectly, through the causality
mentioned above, will credit problems come into play. The eventual victims
of the liquidity crisis may thus not be the ones that triggered it by cutting
lines in the interbank market.
For central bank FCM, the following may be concluded, taking the risk
management perspective. Liquidity problems of banks will be related in one
or two causal ways to credit problems. Therefore, if the central bank wants
to help, it will also have to get involved in credit risk taking, whereby it can
and should do its best to limit actual additional risk taking through careful
risk management. Subject to its policy objectives, it should minimize
additional risk taking through adequate haircuts, and sufﬁciently precise
(i) credit quality assessments and (ii) valuation of collateral.
3.3 Motivations for central banks FCM, and in particular ELA
In the following, a number of potential reasons for justifying FCM measures
by the central bank are provided. Of course, in some cases, more than one
reason is relevant, but each of them is in principle sufﬁcient. Maybe these
motivations are not so relevant for the FCM measures of type A-I and A-II,
and more for the really substantial FCM measures of types A-III and B, which
are about accepting non-standard types of collateral. A-I and A-II could be
seen to be mainly about steering short-term interest rates, and be somehow
less substantial in terms of the central bank ‘getting its hands dirty’, so they
may need less of additional motivation – i.e. they could be simply motivated
by continuing to control short-term interest rates. Anyway, their case,
including justiﬁcations going beyond short-term interest rate control, will be
developed further in Sections 6.1 and 6.2.
3.3.1 Negative externalities of illiquidity (and bankruptcy)
The central bank may be ready to engage in FCM measures because of the
potential negative externalities for society of letting a bank(s) go down,
relating to ‘systemic risk’ and knock-on effects associated with bank failures
(see e.g. Freixas et al. 1999, 154–7). These negative externalities would affect
a lot of players in the market, so whoever of these players would risk their
money to save a bank from illiquidity, would appropriate only a small part
of the avoided negative externalities, but bear the full risk and expected cost.
In theory, affected market players could coordinate to internalize the full
social cost, but as Coase (1960) explained, this does not need to happen due
403
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 432 ---
to transaction cost. In so far, a situation would not be unlikely in which no
single bank is willing to help, but the central bank, comparing social cost
and beneﬁt of FCM measures, would conclude that it should help. The
externality argument also applies in the case where it is certain that a bank
also has solvency problems, since for society, ‘A bank alive will be worth
more than a dead bank, even if net worth of the bank is negative.’ The
negative externality of a real bankruptcy relates in particular to the two
following issues: (i) Difﬁculties and large transaction costs to continue
managing the banks claims in a way to minimize the further losses to its
asset value. In any case, asset values will suffer further from the discon-
tinuity in their management. If a bank is rescued or taken over, and only the
senior management and other main culprits for the failure are replaced,
continuity of operations can be ensured to a higher extent. (ii) Contagion
risks: as the failed bank stops to honour its liabilities (until it is sorted out
how much its lenders can actually receive after liquidation of all assets, which
takes time) and if assets lose more of their value, other banks, corporate
claimants and private investors may become illiquid or insolvent, implying
further costs to society and the danger of widespread knock-on effects.
From a central bank risk management perspective, it is to be highlighted
that a social cost–beneﬁt analysis requires to quantify the costs of risk taking
(or expected losses) of the central bank arising in most FCM cases. Without
estimation of risk, collateral valuation, and an analysis of the role of risk
control measures (e.g. haircuts), the economic (or ‘social’) cost–beneﬁt
analysis of FCM measures would remain fundamentally incomplete, in
particular for A-III and B, when the collateral base is enlarged.
3.3.2 Central bank is only economic agent not threatened by illiquidity
Central banks have been endowed with the monopoly and freedom to issue
the so-called legal tender: central bank money. Therefore, central banks
are never threatened by illiquidity, and it seems natural that in case of a
liquidity crisis, in which all agents rush towards securing their liquidity, the
central bank remains more willing than others to hold (as collateral or
outright) assets which are not particularly liquid. This should be the case
even if the central bank would not have the public mandate to act such as to
avoid negative externalities as described in the previous section. The price
mechanism, leading to depressed prices of illiquid assets in a liquidity crisis,
should itself, everything else equal, be sufﬁcient to have the central bank
404
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 433 ---
move more into illiquid assets. Of course, it could be argued that the central
bank does not have sufﬁcient expertise to assess the value of illiquid assets in
a crisis. However, as far as collateral is concerned, this issue is mitigated by
another central bank speciﬁcity as explained in section 3.3.5.
3.3.3 Superior knowledge of the central bank
One may imagine that due to supervisory functions, or close relation to the
banking supervisor, a central bank has more knowledge than the market,
and knows that a bank (or banking system) with liquidity problems is
solvent, such that emergency liquidity assistance can be done with little or
no risk, in view of the collateral the bank can offer. Other banks in contrast,
on the basis of their inferior knowledge, see a high probability that the bank
also has solvency problems, and therefore do not want to lend any further to
the bank, or at least not against the collateral that the bank can provide (see
e.g. Freixas et al. 1999, 153–4). Berger et al. (1998) test this possibility
empirically and conclude that shortly after supervisors have inspected a
bank, supervisory assessments of the bank are more accurate than those of
the market, but that the opposite is true if the supervisory information is
not recent. This argument may possibly also be restated as follows: once a
bank has problems and gets in touch with the central bank and supervisor to
ask for help, these public institutions can always update their supervisory
information quickly. This is also the case since the bank will be willing to
fully open its books to the central bank and supervisor, trusting that it will
help, and that it will not misuse the information. In contrast, it would not
be willing to open its books and share all information with a competitor,
who it can expect to seek only its own advantage. In other words, not only
its status as powerful regulator, but also the one of a fair broker interested in
the social good allows the central bank to obtain more information than
competitors of the bank in trouble could. The central bank risk manage-
ment perspective on this motivation for FCM measures is clear, as the
motivation is based on superior risk management relevant knowledge of the
central bank, which in this case may be seen to overlap to a signiﬁcant
extent with prudential supervisory expertise.
3.3.4 Superior ability of the central bank to secure claims
Finally, a third independent sufﬁcient reason for FCM measures could be
that the central bank has for legal or other reasons more leverage on a
405
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 434 ---
bank in liquidity and/or solvency problems; i.e. after provision of liquidity
against some non-standard collateral, it can ensure, better than banks
could, that it will be paid back. The central bank is generally in a powerful
position vis-a`-vis banks as it has inﬂuence on supervisory decisions,
including the eventual bank’s closure. Also, the central bank may have
access to legal tools to make a collateral pledge more effective than the
market ever could. Financial risk management typically relies on the
assumption of legal reliability of claims, and leaves doubts on this to
operational risk management experts and lawyers. Still, once the ﬁnancial
risk manager knows what can be relied upon and what is non-secure, it
will consider this as crucial input in its ﬁnancial risk analysis and in
composing optimal risk mitigation measures. If it is true that the central
bank can better secure its claims than others, it will also be able to better
manage related ﬁnancial risks.
3.3.5 Haircuts as powerful risk mitigation tool if credit risk is asymmetric
Haircuts are a powerful tool to mitigate liquidation risk of collateral in the
case of the default of the cash taker (i.e. collateral provider) in a repo
operation – however only if the cash taker is more credit risky than the cash
lender. Indeed, in case of a haircut, the cash taker is exposed to the risk of
default of the cash lender, since in case of such default, she is uncertain
to get her collateral back. For instance if she received EUR 100, but had to
provide collateral for EUR 110 due to haircuts, she has an unsecured
exposure of EUR 10 to the cash lender. This is why haircuts between banks
of similar credit quality tend to be low, while banks impose potentially
high haircuts if they lend cash to e.g. hedge funds. This also explains why
banks would never question haircuts imposed by the central bank, or at least
would never consider a high haircut to be a reason not to borrow from the
central bank for credit risk considerations. Therefore, the central bank will
be able to use (possibly quite high) haircuts as an effective tool to mitigate
risk, and will be able to lend to credit risky counterparties without taking
disproportional risks. These credit risky counterparties will be happy to
accept the haircuts because they do not have to fear a default of the central
bank. They would be far less happy to accept such haircuts when imposed by
other banks on them, as these banks themselves have non-negligible default
risk in a crisis. Therefore, adverse selection and rationing phenomena are
likely to lead to a breakdown of the interbank repo market as far as less liquid
collateral and more risky banks are involved (e.g. Ewerhart and Tapking,
2008).
406
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 435 ---
3.4 ELA provided by other banks, coordinated by the supervisor
or the central bank
Quite often, individual bank FCM (ELA) and solvency assistance have not
been provided by the central bank, but by banks, however, on the basis of a
collective deal engineered by the supervisor and/or the central bank (case C
of the typology of liquidity functions proposed in Section 2). This was the
case for the majority of recent cases of ELA, namely LTCM, BAWAG, IKB
and Sachsen LB. Why can’t banks get together themselves, but need a broker
to come to such agreements which are in their own interest, and why are
public authorities suitable to be the broker for such deals? For instance
LTCM was prevented from going bankrupt by fourteen banks agreeing to
supply funds to allow LTCB to continue operating and to achieve a con-
trolled unwinding and settlement of its operations. The Fed brought
together the banks, but did not contribute money itself. The banks were
made better off by this agreement, and indeed ex post even did not lose any
of their money. Still, no single bank had incentives to rescue LTCM on its
own, since the private expected beneﬁts of that did not exceed the private
expected costs. The main reason for the public authorities to take the
initiative to achieve a Coasean agreement amongst banks to rescue another
bank is that it should be trusted by all players, having no self-interest, but
ideally only the social good in mind. If being trusted, all players will with a
higher chance wilfully reveal relevant information on facts and on their true
preferences, such as to overcome at least partially the well-known problems
of bargaining under asymmetric information (see e.g. Myerson and
Satterthwaite 1983 as a model of these mechanism design issues). The public
authorities will broker a fair agreement on the basis of the information it
has collected, and not reveal private information more than necessary. A
further reason may be the power of the supervisor and central bank to
persuade potential free riders to participate. Even if a bank which is asked
to contribute to a liquidity or solvency rescue feels that it can fully trust
the supervisor and central bank as brokering agents, it may prefer to ﬁnd
excuses not to participate to save costs and avoid risks. However, the public
authorities may be in a position to exert strong ‘moral suasion’, as any
bank may fear that making the central bank its ‘enemy’ will backﬁre in the
future.
Supervisory and risk management expertise seems essential for the
supervisor and central bank to be respected as catalysts, since the banks will
be invited to provide money and thereby to take risks. Also the central bank
407
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 436 ---
needs to be able to understand this ﬁnancial risk taking, also to be sure that
it is reasonable and fair to invite banks to take it.
3.5 Moral hazard
FCM measures by central banks may be regarded as an insurance against
adverse outcomes, and, as any insurance, it would weaken incentives to
prevent bad outcomes to occur. Incentives issues are not generally seen to
prevent insurance from being useful for society, although in some cases, it
may be a reason to not insure some activity, which, in a world without any
moral hazard, would be ensured. Also, incentive issues are generally
something taken into account when designing insurance contracts (e.g. by
foreseeing that the insured entity takes a part of the possible losses). Thus
the negative impact of moral hazard on the welfare improvements from
insurances is not just a given fact, but can be minimized through intelligent
institutional design. Still, different schools on applying this to FCM can be
found in the literature. For instance de Grauwe (Financial Times, 12 August
2007, ‘ECB bail-out sows seeds of crisis’) suggests that the liquidity-injecting
open market operations by the ECB done in early August 2007 created
a moral hazard dilemma. Another school represented by e.g. Humphrey
(1986) or Goodfriend and Lacker (1999) arguing that only aggregate equal
access emergency liquidity injections (though open market operations) are
legitimate from an incentive point of view, while any individual access ELA
would be detrimental overall to welfare because of its moral hazard inducing
effects. Other authors like Flannery (1996), Freixas (1999) Goodhart (1999)
and most central bankers would in contrast argue that also ELA may be
justiﬁed (namely as explained in Section 3.3). The fact that an insurance
always has some distorting effects is not a proof that there should be no
insurance, in particular if bank failures have huge negative externalities. This
does not mean that there should always be a bail-out, but in some cases there
should. Also it does not mean that the bail-out should be complete in the
sense of avoiding losses to all stakeholders – quite the contrary (see below).
Another widespread view is that moral hazard and incentive issues imply
that crisis-related liquidity injections ‘should only be given to overcome
liquidity problems as a result of inefﬁcient market allocation of liquidity’4,
and in particular not in the case of true solvency problems. However, as
4 See also Goodhart (1999, 352–3). For instance Goodfriend and Lacker (1999) seem to take this conservative view, and
also Sveriges Riksbank (2003, 64).
408
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 437 ---
argued above, the welfare considerations on solvency problems are not so
different from those regarding liquidity problems. In both cases, a rescue
scheme may be useful ex post, and also the incentives issues are similar after
all. So in fact, for both, one needs to accept that looking for the right design of
the ‘insurance contract’ is essential. In both cases, it seems important to not
take away incentives to monitor banks to those who are in a position to do so.
Moreover, it is difﬁcult to distinguish insolvency and illiquidity ex ante.
Goodhard (1999, 352), for whom the claim that ‘moral hazard is every-
where and at all times a major consideration’ is one of the four myths that
have been established around ELA, distinguishes four groups of stakeholders
with regard to the incentives they need to be confronted with. The most
important decision makers and thus those most directly responsible for
liquidity or solvency problems are the senior management of the bank.
Therefore, often a bank requesting support from the central bank has to
sacriﬁce one or several of its responsible Board members. This was for
instance also the case in the most recent bank rescue operation, namely of
IKB in Germany in August 2007, in which both the CEO and the CFO had to
quit within two weeks. Goodhart (1999, 353) considers it a failure that the
executives of LTCM were never removed after the rescue of this hedge fund,
exactly for these incentive reasons. He notes that unfortunately ‘the current
executives have a certain monopoly of inside information, and at times of
crisis that information may have particular value’. Second, equity holders,
which have the highest incentives to ask the management to run a high-risk
strategy with negative externalities, should obviously suffer. Third, also bond
holders, and probably interbank market lenders should suffer if equity
holders cannot absorb losses, as these groups should still be made responsible
for monitoring their exposures. Fourth, it is according to Goodhart (1999,
354) today considered as socially wasteful to require ordinary small depos-
itors to monitor their bank, and that some (though preferably not 100
per cent) deposit insurance for those would be justiﬁed.
To become more precise, consider quickly the moral-hazard relevance of
all types of FCM measures:
 A-I: OMO aggregate liquidity injection. This is supposed to be for the
beneﬁt of all banks and the system, which has fallen or risks falling into
an inferior equilibrium, as a whole. Therefore, referring to moral hazard
would imply a collective responsibility of the system, which is difﬁcult to
see. If banks have collectively embarked in reckless activity, then the
banking and ﬁnancial market supervision, and/or the legislator have not
done their job either, and it may be difﬁcult to hold responsible the
409
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 438 ---
competitive banking system which was led towards this by the
environment set or tolerated by the legislator. In any case, in times of
money market tensions, interbank interest rates move to levels above the
target rate set by the central banks, if the proﬁle of the liquidity supply by
the central bank is unchanged. Therefore, it is natural for a central bank
to re-adjust the proﬁle of liquidity supply to demand in order to stabilize
short-term interbank rates around their target. ¼> Moral hazard
considerations hardly relevant.
 A-II: lowering the penalty level associated with the borrowing facility. Same
arguments. ¼> Moral hazard considerations hardly relevant.
 A-III: widening the collateral set. Admittedly, this type of measure could
have moral hazard implications, particularly (1) if the general widening
of the collateral set in fact targets a small number or, say, even a single
bank under liquidity stress, which is rich in the speciﬁc type of additional
collateral; and (2) if the central bank offers facilities, for instance a
standing borrowing facility, to effectively reﬁnance such collateral. This
type of action invites moral hazard as it may indeed be decisive to
establish whether the single bank fails or not, while at the same time
sparing to the banks’ management and shareholders the substantial costs
associated
with
resorting
to
real
emergency
liquidity
assistance.
Therefore, a widening of the collateral set accepted for monetary policy
purposes should probably only be considered if this measure would
substantially help a signiﬁcant number of banks and if the set of assets
were very narrow. In this case the lack of collateral obviously seems to be
more of a systemic issue, and the central bank should consider taking
action.5 ¼> Moral hazard is an issue, in particular if problems are
limited to a few banks.
 B: individual ELA. Moral hazard is in principle an issue, but it can be
addressed by ensuring that shareholders and managers are sanctioned.
Being supported individually by the central bank always comes at a
substantial cost to the bank’s management, which can expect that the
central bank / supervisor will ask for the responsible persons to quit, and
which will control closely the actions of the bank for some while. Also the
reputation damage of a liquidity problem is substantial (as soon as the
support becomes public). In so far, it seems implausible to construct a
5 The Institute of International Finance (2007) proposes the following guiding principle with regard to moral hazard:
As a principle, central banks should be more willing to intervene to support the market and its participants and be
more lenient as to the type of collateral they are willing to accept, if the crisis originates outside the ﬁnancial industry.
410
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 439 ---
scenario in which the bank deliberately goes for much more liquidity risk
than would be optimal from the point of view of society. This does not
mean that the calculus of the bank is untouched by the perspective to be
bailed out. But probably the distortion remains weaker than the one that
might be caused by solvency aid – as far as the two are clearly distinct.
Also in the case of solvency aid, the authorities should ensure, to the
extent possible ex ante and ex post, that in particular shareholders and
senior managers suffer from losses. ¼> Moral hazard is an issue, but
can be addressed to a signiﬁcant extent.
 C: Public authorities as catalysts for peer institution’s help. Again, the
public authorities and the helping institutions can and should ensure that
shareholders and senior management are sanctioned. ¼> Moral hazard
is an issue, but can be addressed to a signiﬁcant extent.
In sum, it is wrong to speak generally about moral hazard associated to FCM
measures, since it makes a big difference what type of FCM measure is
taken. An individual ELA (and solvency aid) framework can be designed
with a perspective to preserve to the extent possible the right incentives, the
optimum having to be determined jointly with the prudential supervision
rules. In the optimum, some distortions will still occur, as they occur in
almost any insurance or agency contract. Recognizing the existence of these
distortions is not a general reason for concluding that such contracts should
not exist at all. In the case of individual ELA, the concrete issue of incentives
may be summarized as stated by Andrew Crocket (cited after Freixas et al.
1999, 161): ‘if it is clear that management will always lose their jobs, and
shareholders their capital, in the event of failure, moral hazard should be
alleviated’. For equal access widening of collateral, moral hazard issues are
potentially tricky, and would deserve to be studied further. Risk manage-
ment expertise of the central bank is relevant in all this because for all
measures except A-I and A-II, asset valuation, credit quality assessment and
haircut setting are all key to determine to what extent the different measures
are pure liquidity assistance, and when they are more likely to turn out to
also consist of solvency assistance. In the latter case, moral hazard issues are
always more intense that in the former.
3.6 Constructive ambiguity
‘Constructive ambiguity’, which is a term due to Corrigan, is considered
one important means to limit moral hazard. The idea is that by not
establishing any ofﬁcial rules on FCM measures, banks will not count on it
411
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 440 ---
and their incentives to be prudent will not be weakened. Still, ex post, the
central bank may help. Already Bagehot (1873, chapter 7) touches on the
topic, and taking the perspective of the market, criticizes the ambiguity
surrounding the Bank of England’s FCM policies (whereby it needs to be
admitted that this refers to equal access FCM measures, and not to what
today’s debates mainly have in mind, which is individual ELA):
Theory suggests, and experience proves, that in a panic the holders of the ultimate
Bank reserve (whether one bank or many) should lend to all that bring good
securities quickly, freely, and readily. By that policy they allay a panic; by every
other policy they intensify it. The public have a right to know whether the Bank of
England the holders of our ultimate bank reserve acknowledge this duty, and are ready
to perform it. But this is now very uncertain.
Apparently central bankers remained unimpressed by this claimed ‘right’ of
the public, and still 135 years after Bagehot, the ﬁnancial industry continued
expressing the wish for more explicitness by central banks (Institute of
International Finance 2007, 42):
Central banks should provide greater clarity on their roles as lenders of last resort in
both ﬁrm-speciﬁc and market-related crises . . . Central banks should be more
transparent about the process to be followed during extraordinary events, for
example, the types of additional collateral that could be pledged, haircuts that could
be applied, limits by asset type (if any), and the delivery form of such assets.
Freixas (1999) proposes an explicit model of the role of constructive
ambiguity, in which he shows that mixed strategies, in which the central
bank sometimes bails out and sometimes does not, can be optimal when
taking into account the implied incentive effects. In mixed strategies, a
player in a strategic game randomizes over different options applying some
optimal probabilities, and it can be shown that such a strategy may maxi-
mize the expected utility of the player (in this case the central bank, the
utility of which would be social welfare; see e.g. Myerson (1991, 156) for
a description of the concept of mixed equilibrium, or any other game
theory textbook). In so far, constructive ambiguity could be considered as
reﬂecting the optimality of mixed strategies. As it may however be difﬁcult
to make randomization an ofﬁcial strategy (as this would raise legal prob-
lems), hiding behind ‘constructive ambiguity’ may appear optimal. Another
interpretation of constructive ambiguity could be that it is a doctrine to
avoid legal problems: if there would be a clear ELA policy, the central bank
would probably be forced to act accordingly, and not become exposed to
412
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 441 ---
legal proceedings. In addition, even if it follows in principle its policies,
cases may be so complex that legal proceedings may always be opened
against the central bank in order to blame it for losses that eventually
occurred.
In particular three central banks worldwide have made attempts to be
transparent on their ELA policies, thereby rejecting in principle the doctrine
of constructive ambiguity, namely Sveriges Riksbank (2003, 58), Hong
Kong Monetary Authority (1999), and Bank of Canada (Daniel et al. 2004).6
Of course, all of these three central banks do not promise ELA under any
conditions, they only specify necessary conditions for ELA, such that they
could in principle still randomize over their actual actions. The speciﬁca-
tions they provide are to a substantial part focused on risk management.
From a risk manager’s perspective, one would generally tend to be
suspicious of the concept of constructive ambiguity. It is the sort of concept
which triggers alarm bells in the risk manager’s view of the world, since it
could be seen to mean non-transparency, discretion and deliberate absence
of agreed procedures (see also e.g. Freixas et al. 1999, 160). In the risk
manager’s perspective in a wider sense, the following doubts could be
expressed vis-a`-vis constructive ambiguity, if it is supposed to mean that no
philosophy, principles and rules have been studied even internally in the
central bank. First, it could be interpreted to reﬂect a lack of thinking by
central banks, i.e. an inability to formulate clear contingent rules on when
and how to conduct FCM measures. Second, it will imply longer lead times
of actual conduct of FCM measures, and more likely wrong decisions.
Third, constructive ambiguity would concentrate power with a few senior
management decision makers, who will not be bound to policies (as such
policies would not exist, at least not in an as clear way as if they were written
down) and will have more limited accountability.
If constructive ambiguity is supposed to mean that a philosophy, prin-
ciples and rules should exist, but are kept secret, then the following points
could still be made. First, it could still seem to be the opposite of trans-
parency, a value universally recognized nowadays for central banks, in
6 For instance Sveriges Riksbank (2003, 58) explains: ‘Some central banks appear unwilling to even discuss the
possibility of possible LOLR operations for fear that this could have a negative effect on ﬁnancial institutions’
behaviour, that is to say, that moral hazard could lead to a deterioration in risk management and to a greater risk
taking in the banking system. The Riksbank on the other hand, sees openness as a means of reducing moral
hazard . . . A well reasoned stance on the issue of ELA reduces the risk of granting assistance un-necessarily . . .
[and is] a defence against strong pressure that the Riksbank shall act as a lender of last resort in less appropriate
situations.’
413
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 442 ---
particular if large amounts of public money are at stake.7 Second, it could
be argued that this approach would reiterate an old fallacy from macro-
economics, namely the idea that one can do things ex post, but as long as
they are not transparently described ex ante, they will not affect behaviour
ex ante. This fallacy was overcome in macroeconomics by the theory of
rational expectations. From the perspective of rational expectations theory,
it could be argued that having a policy but trying to be non-transparent on
it eventually does not mean that policies will not be taken into account ex
ante, but will be taken into account in a more ‘noisy’ way since market
players will estimate the ‘reaction function’ of the central bank under more
uncertainty. Noise in itself is however unlikely to be useful. Finally, con-
structive ambiguity could still imply delays in implementing measures, since
even if the central bank is internally well prepared and has pre-designed its
reaction function as far as possible, banks requesting FCM measures would
be likely to be much better prepared if they knew in advance the relevant
rules.8
Generally, it could be argued that constructive ambiguity is the opposite
from what the regulators expect from banks, namely to have well-documented
risk taking policies in particular in crisis situations, and to do stress testing and
to develop associated procedures. Risk management becomes most important
in stress situations, and it is counter-intuitive to say that exactly for these
situations, no prior thinking should take place. Prior thinking does not mean
believing in the possibility to anticipate every detail of the next ﬁnancial crisis,
but only by the belief that one will be in a much better position to react,
compared with the case of no preparation at all.
3.7 At what rate to provide special lending in a crisis situation?
This issue has been debated for a long time, as it is part of the Bagehot
legacy. Interestingly, both Thornton (1802) and Harman in 1832 were less
7 Full transparency in the middle of a crisis and associated rescue operations may also be harmful, and information on
banks accessed by the central bank may be confidential. Ex post, a high level of transparency appears desirable as a key
element of accountability of public authorities operation with public resources.
8 This is also the opinion expressed by the industry in Institute of International Finance (2007, 42): ‘there is a fear that
greater transparency on the part of central banks would lead to moral hazard. It is the Special Committee’s belief,
however, that the beneﬁts of increased clarity on how central banks would respond to different types of crises
outweigh this risk. In times of crisis involving multiple jurisdictions and regulators, there will always be challenges in
the coordination of information collection, sharing, and decision making. To the extent possible, the more protocol
that is established prior to such an event, the better prepared both ﬁrms and supervisors will be to address a crisis.’
414
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 443 ---
explicit on this. Debates on it are linked to the incentive / moral hazard
issue discussed above. The key passage in Bagehot (1873, 197 – see also
Goodhart 1999) is:
The end is to stay the panic; and the advances should, if possible, stay the panic.
And for this purpose there are two rules: First. That these loans should only be
made at a very high rate of interest. This will operate as a heavy ﬁne on unreasonable
timidity, and will prevent the greatest number of applications by persons who do
not require it. The rate should be raised early in the panic, so that the ﬁne may be
paid early; that no one may borrow out of idle precaution without paying well for
it; that the Banking reserve may be protected as far as possible.
First, it is important to recall one more time that Bagehot referred to the
case of equal access FCM, not to what is mostly debated today, namely
individual bank ELA. Second, it may be noted that today, central banks offer
borrowing facilities, typically at þ100 basis points relative to the target rate,
i.e. at some moderate penalty level, but that even this penalty level is
apparently considered too high, since central banks e.g. in August 2007
injected equal access emergency liquidity through open market operations
almost at the target level, instead of letting banks bear a 100 basis points
penalty. So this would not at all have been in the sense of Bagehot (1873).
Without saying that it was necessary to shield banks in August 2007 from
paying a 100 basis point penalty for overnight credit, it is difﬁcult also to
believe that a 100 basis point penalty would have been very relevant in terms
of providing incentives. For aggregate FCM measures, the topic simply does
not appear overly relevant, at least not in terms of providing or not the right
incentives for banks. A general liquidity crunch in the money market is
anyway a collective phenomenon, which may have been triggered only by
the irresponsible behaviour of a few participants, or even by completely
exogenous events. Therefore, collective punishment (anyway only by small
amounts) does not make too much sense.
The same seems to hold true for single access ELA: single access ELA
implies a lot of problems for a bank and its stakeholders, and this is how it
should be (as argued above). Also, in expected terms, ELA often means
subsidization of banks, since ELA tends to correlate with solvency problems.
The rate at which an ELA loan is made to a bank is in this context only a
relatively subordinated issue, which will not decide on future incentives. For
the sake of transparency of ﬁnancial ﬂows, it would probably make sense to
set the ELA rate either at a market rate for the respective maturity (in
particular if one is conﬁdent that there will be enough ‘punishment’ of the
415
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 444 ---
relevant stakeholders anyway), or at say þ100 basis points, which is a kind
of penalty level, but none which would compensate for the risks.9
4. Financial stability role of central bank operational framework
The setting-up of a central bank’s risk management framework for collat-
eralized lending operations is discussed in-depth in Chapters 7 and 8. When
designing a framework and setting thereby the eventual amount of eligible
collateral and the implied borrowing potential of the banking system with
the central bank, the relevance of this for ﬁnancial stability needs to be
recognized. Financial markets are inherently unstable as the prospect of a
systemic crisis may be self-fulﬁlling (as has been modelled in various ways
ever since Diamond and Dybvig 1983). Bank runs (both by non-banks and
by other banks) are inherently dynamic, and in principle the state of the
money market can switch from smooth and liquid to tense and dry up from
one moment to the next, as observed at least since Bagehot (1873) and as
experienced most recently in August 2007. Potential reasons (more sub-
stantial than sunspots) which could trigger a liquidity crisis are always out
there in the market, whereby the intensity of these potential triggers for a
crisis can be thought as a stochastic process across time. The central bank’s
normal credit operations framework is key in deciding what the critical level
of stress will be before an actual liquidity crisis breaks out. For instance, it is
plausible that the critical stress level will depend on the following ﬁve
dimensions.
(1) Availability of collateral for central bank credit operations. It will be
stabilizing that: (i) the set of collateral eligible for central bank credit
operations is wide; (ii) amounts of collateral available to the banks are
large, in comparison to average needs with regards to central bank
credit operations, and needs at high conﬁdence levels; (iii) collateral
buffers are well-dispersed over the banking system; (iv) risk control
measures imposed by the central bank such as limits and haircuts are
not overly constraining (e.g. avoidance of limits). The collateral and
risk control framework may, or may not be differentiated across the
three different types of central bank credit operations (open market
9 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (1999, 79) puts emphasis on the idea of a penalty rate: ‘The interest rate charged
on LOLR support would be at a rate which is sufﬁcient to maintain incentives for good management but not at a level
which would defeat the purpose of the facility, i.e. to prevent illiquidity from precipitating insolvency.’
416
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 445 ---
operations, borrowing facility, intra-day). If they are somehow
differentiated, then also the impact on money market stability needs
to be differentiated across these three dimensions – even if ‘the more
the better’ will somehow hold across all of these dimensions.
(2) Existence of an end-of-day borrowing facility at a moderate penalty
rate and which does not stigmatize. Most leading central banks
impose a penalty level of 100 basis points on their borrowing facility.
This is not really an important cost factor for a bank if we talk about
covering exceptional short-term liquidity needs even of a considerable
size. For instance a EUR 1 billion loan overnight at a 100 basis point
penalty means penalty costs of EUR 28 thousand. If a bank takes EUR
10 billion over ten days, it would thus mean a cost of EUR 2.8 million.
For a medium- or large-sized banks, this is literally peanuts compared
with the potential damage caused by a run on the bank (or a cutting of
credit lines from other banks causing a liquidity squeeze). What will
really be relevant will be the availability of collateral and the certainty
perceived that the information on a large access to the borrowing facility
will be kept secret (unless the bank decides voluntarily on an outing).10
(3) A high number of ﬁnancial institutions has direct access to the
central bank borrowing facility. Wide access to open market
operations may also be relevant in so far as it is considered that open
market operations have their own merits in terms of contributing to
ﬁnancial stability. A wide range of counterparties is relevant since one
core characteristics of a money market crunch is that due to general
mistrust and scarcity, no one lends, not even at a high price. Therefore,
the central bank becomes the lender of last resort for all ﬁnancial
institutions which lack liquidity, and it does not help a ﬁnancial
institution to know that others could borrow from the central bank and
pass on the liquidity to itself, as exactly this will not happen.
(4) The intra-day payment system is well designed to avoid deadlocks –
for which also limits in intra-day overdrafting and possible collateral
requirements are important. There is an extensive literature on this
topic see e.g. CPSS (2000).
10 An important issue in this context is how close the borrowing facility is to an emergency facility. In the US, the
discount window had been understood before 2003 as being something in between a monetary policy instrument
and an automated emergency liquidity facility. In contrast, the Eurosystem’s facility had been designed from the
outset more as a monetary policy tool, as suggested by (i) the identity of the collateral set with the one for open
market operations; (ii) the absence of any quantitative limitation; (iii) the absence of any follow-up investigations by
the central bank.
417
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 446 ---
(5) Reserve requirements and averaging. At least initially, i.e. in the US
until the early 1930s, reserve requirements were considered as a means
to ensure ﬁnancial stability (see e.g. Bindseil 2004 chapter 4 and the
literature quoted there). Although this is no longer seen to be an
essential motivation of reserve requirements, the existence of reserve
requirements must be relevant in some sense for ﬁnancial stability.
It may be argued that obtaining central bank reserves to fulﬁl reserve
requirements drains available collateral, which is negative for ﬁnancial
stability. On the other side, averaging allows to buffer away moderate
end-of-day liquidity shocks without recourse to a borrowing facility,
which may be positive if recourse to the borrowing facility is stigmatized.
The averaging functionality also allowed the Eurosystem to inject
massively excess reserves into the system in the second half of 2007, as it
knew it could absorb these excess amounts again in the second half of the
reserve maintenance period.
In sum, a ﬁrst crucial contribution to ﬁnancial stability that the central
bank can provide lies in its normal-times credit operations and collateral
framework. When designing this framework, the central bank should always
also have ﬁnancial stability in mind, and not only risk mitigation of the
central bank in normal times. This will bias the framework in the directions
indicated above, and should be based on some cost–beneﬁt analysis,
although estimating beneﬁts is very difﬁcult, since it is not observable how
many liquidity crises are avoided by building in one or other stability-
enhancing features into the framework.
5. The inertia principle of central bank risk management
in crisis situations
In the previous section, it was argued that the operational framework for
central bank credit operation was a ﬁrst major contribution a central bank
can make and should make to ﬁnancial stability. In particular, a wide range
of eligible collateral (to be made risk-equivalent through risk control
measures) is crucial in this respect. In the subsequent section, equal access
FCM measures will be discussed. In between, something very fundamental
needs to be introduced, which is called here the ‘inertia principle’ of central
bank risk management. The inertia principle says that the central bank’s risk
management should not react to a ﬁnancial crisis in the same way as banks’
risk managers should, namely by restricting business such as to limit the
418
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 447 ---
additional extent of risk taking. Instead, the central bank should maintain
its risk control framework at least inert, and accept that its risk taking will
therefore rise considerably in a crisis situation. While central bank risk
management is normally conservative and reﬂects the idea that, probably,
the central bank is a moderately competitive risk manager compared to
private ﬁnancial institutions,11 it becomes an above-average risk taker in
crisis situations – ﬁrst of all by showing inertia in its risk management
framework. There is thus some fundamental transformation occurring
because the central bank continues operating in a ﬁnancial crisis as if
nothing had changed – even if all risk measures (PDs of collateral issuers
and counterparties, correlations, expected loss, CreditVaR, MarketVaR,
etc.) have gone up dramatically, and all banks are cutting credit lines and
are increasing margins in the interbank market. The inertia principle can be
traced back to Bagehot (1873) who formulates it as follows (emphasis
added):
If it is known that the Bank of England is freely advancing on what in ordinary times
is reckoned a good security on what is then commonly pledged and easily convertible,
the alarm of the solvent merchants and bankers will be stayed. But if securities,
really good and usually convertible, are refused by the Bank, the alarm will not
abate, the other loans made will fail in obtaining their end, and the panic will
become worse and worse.
Bagehot thus does not say: ‘only provide advances on what is a good
security also in the crisis situation’, so he does not invite the central bank to
join the ﬂight to quality, but he says that advances can be provided on what
was good collateral ‘in ordinary times’. It may also be noted that Bagehot
does not try to make a distinction between: (i) securities of which the
intrinsic quality has not deteriorated relative to normal times, but of which
only the qualities in terms of market properties (liquidity, sale price that
can be achieved, availability of market prices, etc.) have worsened; and
(ii) securities of which the intrinsic quality is likely to have deteriorated due
to the real nature of the crisis (i.e. increased expected loss from holding the
security, regardless of need to mark-to-market or sell the security). Not
distinguishing these two is a very crucial issue. On one side, it appears wise
as mostly, these two types of securities are not clearly distinguishable in a
11 Also, the central bank should focus on its core business (monetary policy to achieve price stability), which is a
sufficiently complicated job; second, it is unlikely to be a competitive player (with ‘tax payer’s money’) in
sophisticated risk taking. Third, it may encounter conflicts of interest when engaging in such business.
419
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 448 ---
crisis situation, i.e. a liquidity crisis does typically arise if market players are
generally suspicious and do not know yet where the actual losses will
materialize. On the other side, not even trying to make the distinction
means that the central bank’s stabilization function does not only stem from
its willingness to bridge the liquidity gap (which it should do as it is the only
agent in the economy which can genuinely create liquidity), but to really
take some expected losses.
The inertia ends when the central bank starts widening its collateral set,
or when it relaxes risk control measures. Indeed, the Harman description of
the 1825 events, where the Bank of England widened the set of assets it
accepted (‘We lent . . . by every possible means, and in modes that we never
had adopted before’), suggests that inertia sets a minimum constraint in
terms of liberality of the central bank risk management in crisis situations,
but that if the seriousness of the crisis passes some threshold, equal access
FCM measures becomes necessary. Anyway, the striking feature of the
inertia principle is that the increasing social returns to additional risk taking
by a central bank in a crisis situation appear to always outweigh the
increasing costs of the central bank taking more risks (although it is not a
specialist in risk taking), such that there is for quite a range of events
no point in tightening or loosening the risk mitigation measures of the
central bank when moving within the spectrum from full ﬁnancial system
stability to various types and intensities of tensions. That this general
inertia is optimal seems somehow surprising, since the two factors deter-
mining the trade-off are very unlikely to always support the same optimum.
A number of arguments in favour of inertia per se may however be brought
forward. First, only inertia ensures that banks can really plan well for the
case of a crisis. The possibility that the central bank would make more
constraining risk control measures or would reduce collateral eligibility in
crisis situation would make planning by banks much more difﬁcult. As the
optimal changes of the credit risk mitigation measures would be likely to be
dependent on various details of the ongoing crisis, it would also become
almost impossible to anticipate these contingent central bank reactions in
advance. Second, the central bank is unlikely to be able to re-assess the
complex trade-off between optimal ﬁnancial risk management (avoiding
ﬁnancial losses to the central bank and eventually to the taxpayer in view
of its limited risk management competence) and optimal contribution to
ﬁnancial stability anyway at short notice, since both sides are difﬁcult to
quantify even in normal static conditions. Third, ex ante equivalence of
420
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 449 ---
repeated access to the borrowing facility to a reﬁnancing through open
market operations (besides the penalty rate and possible stigmatization)
also requires full trust of the bank into central bank inertia with regard to
all access conditions to the borrowing facility. As it will be argued further
below, convincing the banks that the borrowing facility is as good as open
market operations (but for the penalty) is of help for ﬁnancial stability as it
may avoid to conduct large-scale open market operations which eventually
can lead to unstable short-term interest rates, and an uneven reserve ful-
ﬁllment path.
In implementing the inertia principle, some tricky issues arise. For
instance how should rating requirements be handled, if important issuers
start getting downgraded to below the rating threshold for collateral
eligibility? Does the inertia principle refer to the actual set of collateral, or to
the eligibility requirements? This of course depends on how rating agencies
map short-term shocks and uncertainties into downgrades, and therefore
probably no universal answer can be provided. If a central bank would
conclude that substantial downgrades to below the rating requirement
imposed by the central bank lead to a critical aggravation of the crisis due to
the implied shrinking of the set of assets eligible for central bank credit
operations, then it may lower the rating threshold to maintain these assets
eligible. This may then be either interpreted as a form of application of the
inertia principle, or as equal access ELA through a widening of the collateral
set (as discussed further in Section 6.3). Another interesting question is
whether the inertia principle also refers to central bank investment decisions
(e.g. foreign reserve management, and domestic investment portfolios). In
this area, it could be argued that the central bank is not a policy body, but
an investor, which should feel obliged to prudently manage public money.
On the other side one could feel that consistency issues would arise between
policy and investment operations if they were treated too differently. Also,
the central bank faces reputation risk if on one side it tries to persuade the
market to relax, while on the other it does the same as other banks (e.g. cut
credit lines) and thereby contributes to a liquidity crisis. Finally, inertia does
not mean absence of knowledge about central bank risk taking in a crisis
situation. On the contrary, the readiness to take more risks should go hand-
in-hand with sophisticated measurement of these risks, such as to put decision
makers in the position to judge on a continuous basis on the costs (in terms
of risks) of inertia, or to possibly react if they feel that too much of add-
itional risk arises.
421
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 450 ---
6. Equal access FCM measures
In an equal access FCM measure, access conditions to liquidity are modiﬁed
in the same way for all relevant counterparties of the central bank. In
Section 2 of this chapter, four sub-cases of equal access FCM measures were
introduced, each of which are addressed in more detail below.
6.1 Emergency liquidity injections through open market operations
Open market operations (OMOs) in relation to market turmoil were
conducted recently by major central banks both after 11 September and in
August–December 2007. An increase in interbank overnight rates beyond
the target level was observed by the central bank and seemed to reveal a
demand for excess reserves. Demand for excess reserves is normally rather
limited in modern ﬁnancial systems with reliable payment systems. How-
ever, under ﬁnancial stress, banks tend to demand excess liquidity, and if
the central bank does not respond, at least interbank short-term rates would
go to above the central bank’s target level.
What needs to be distinguished from this modern form of injection of
excess reserves is the injection of additional central bank money through
open market operations to address changes in autonomous factors, and in
particular the increase of banknotes, or the decrease of foreign exchange
reserves of the central bank in case of a ﬁxed exchange rate regime. For
instance the classical nineteenth-century liquidity crisis was often triggered
by an increased demand for cash or for gold, which are classiﬁed as
autonomous liquidity absorbing factors in the taxonomy of monetary policy
implementation (see e.g. Bindseil 2004, chapter 2). Today, it is considered
obvious that autonomous factor changes need to be reﬂected in corres-
ponding changes of the supply of reserves through open market operations,
and in any case, today’s typical liquidity crisis no longer relates to increases
in liquidity absorbing autonomous factors. By not caring about this dif-
ference, many academic or journalistic commentators (and even central
banks), applying directly nineteenth-century insights to today’s liquidity
crisis, are potentially led to wrong conclusions. To get these differences
right, commentators need ﬁrst to understand the precise logic of monetary
policy implementation.
So, again, today’s question is: should a temporary demand for excess
reserves, which is revealed in an increase of interbank overnight rates, be
422
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 451 ---
satisﬁed through additional funds injected via open market operations?
First, it needs to be understood why exactly banks would want to hold
excess reserves in such situations. A liquidity crisis means essentially
uncertainty about whether: (i) expected payments will come in from other
banks; (ii) other banks will cut credit lines, i.e. will no longer be available to
provide liquidity in case of need; (iii) customers may withdraw more
deposits than expected; (iv) securities that would under normal circum-
stances be liquid can be liquidated without substantial discounts at short
notice. All these effects may be summarized in model terms as meaning an
increase in the variance of liquidity shocks, as it can be described in the
standard liquidity management model originating from Poole (1968), as
stated by Woodford (2003) and Bindseil and Nyborg (2008), in the case of a
symmetric corridor set by standing facilities. Let Sj be the reserves bank j
chooses to hold (through dealing in the interbank market) at the beginning
of the day. The bank is subsequently subject to a shock in its holdings of ej,
taking its end of day holdings to rj. The shocks are independently distrib-
uted across banks with E[ejjSj]¼0, Var [ejjSj]¼rj
2. For each j, ejjrj has a
cumulative density function F, with a mean of zero, variance of 1, and
F(0)¼0.5. Let i, iB and iD denote the market rate, the rate of the borrowing
facility, and the rate of the deposit facility, respectively, and let R be the
aggregate reserves of banks with the central bank set at the beginning of the
day. It can then be shown that (see e.g. Bindseil and Nyborg 2008):
i ¼ iD þ F
R
P
j rj
 
!
ðiB  iDÞ
ð11:1Þ
Thus by choosing R, for example through open market operations at the
beginning of the day, the central bank can achieve any market interest rate
within the corridor set by the two standing facilities. If R ¼ 0, the market
rate would be in the middle of the corridor (since F(0) ¼ ½). Interestingly,
this model would suggest that an increase in the variance of liquidity shocks
would have no effect on interbank overnight rates. So why can one observe
an increase in overnight rates whenever a money market crisis arises?
The true corridor must in fact be different from what it seems to be. The
following reasons for this can be found. First, an end-of-day excess of funds
does not oblige a bank necessarily to go to the deposit facility, in particular
not if the bank has still a considerable amount of reserve requirements to
fulﬁll. If the excess of funds can be used for fulﬁlling reserve requirements,
then there is no immediate cost to it. Second, if a bank runs out of collateral
423
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 452 ---
due to the liquidity absorbing shock, and cannot reﬁnance in the interbank
market, then it needs individual ELA, which is certainly a rather cata-
strophic and costly event. It may well be that some banks seeking funds in
the unsecured interbank market already know that they are short of col-
lateral, so the willingness to pay is very high. Third, even if a bank has
enough collateral to reﬁnance at the borrowing facility, the stigmatization
problem arises. Will the central bank ask questions? Will other banks ﬁnd
out that the bank made this recourse and be will thus even more suspicious
and will cut further their credit lines to the bank? The number of persons
who will know that you took the recourse will always be considerable (both
in the bank and in the central bank). The two large recourses of Barclay’s to
the Bank of England’s borrowing facility in August 2007 in fact all became
public – Barclay’s made them public, probably anticipating that it would be
worse if the market would ﬁnd out itself.
Under normal market conditions, the last two points are far less relevant,
which explains why a central bank like the ECB can normally consider that
it offers a symmetric corridor system. The more intense a crisis, the less
symmetric the effective corridor will be, and thus the higher the equilibrium
rate in the overnight interbank market will be. Consider Figure 11.1,
which illustrates the idea for a single bank. The bank is subject to daily
liquidity shocks, i.e. unexpected in- or outﬂows of reserves which need to
be addressed through money market operations or recourse to central
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
–6.0
–5.5
–5.0
–4.5
–4.0
–3.6
–3.1
–2.6
–2.1
–1.6
–1.1
–0.6
–0.1
0.4
0.9
1.3
1.8
2.3
2.8
3.3
3.8
4.3
4.8
Size of liquidity shock
Density/marginal cost
Density of liquidity shocks – normal
Density of liquidity shocks – crisis
Marginal cost of liquidity adjustement (in percentage points)
Figure 11.1
Liquidity shocks and associated marginal costs to a speciﬁc bank.
424
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 453 ---
bank facilities. Every bank will have its own ‘marginal cost of liquidity
adjustment’ curve, depending on parameters such as the credit lines other
banks have granted to it, the credit lines it has granted to other banks, the
size and equipment of its money market desk, its reserve requirements, and
last but not least the availability of central bank eligible collateral. Small
liquidity shocks can be buffered out at almost no cost through reserve
requirements (with averaging), whereby this buffering effect is asymmetric
because of the prohibition to not run a deﬁcit at day end. Beyond using the
buffering function associated with reserve requirements, the bank can use
the interbank market, however, taking into account the bid–ask spread and
increasing marginal costs of interbank trades due to limitations imposed by
credit lines and market depth. At the end, the bank needs to make use of
standing facilities, which in the example of Figure 11.1 are available at a cost
of þ/100 basis points. Finally, banks can run out of central bank collateral
when making use of the borrowing facility, and then the marginal costs of
the liquidity shock suddenly grow very quickly or almost vertically. In a next
step, marginal cost of liquidity adjustments curve needs to be matched
against the density function of liquidity shocks. Figure 11.1 assumes under
normal conditions a variance of liquidity shocks of EUR 0.5 billion, and of
EUR 2 billion during a crisis. Assuming that the collateral basis of the
counterparty considered is EUR 5 billion, then the probability of running
out of collateral is around 10 E-24 under normal circumstances, but 45 basis
points in a crisis, which makes a dramatic difference. It is important to note
that for every bank, each of the three curves in Figure 11.1 will be different,
and that it is not sufﬁcient for a central bank to consider some ‘aggregate’
curves or representative banks.
Another reason for why interbank rates soar in case of a liquidity crisis is
increased credit risk: as long as this does not lead to a total market
breakdown, it would at least lead to higher unsecured interbank rates to
reﬂect the increased risk premium.
The central bank will dislike the increase of short-term interbank rates
ﬁrst for monetary policy reasons. The target rate reﬂects the stance of
monetary policy, and it is the task of monetary policy implementation to
achieve it. Financial turmoil is, if anything, bad news on economic pro-
spects, and therefore should, if anything, be translated into a loosening, and
not a tightening of the monetary policy stance. Anyway, there is no need
to adapt the stance of monetary policy within the day to macroeconomic
news – it is almost always sufﬁcient to wait until the next regular meeting of
the policy decision-making body. If really needed, an ad hoc meeting of the
425
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 454 ---
decision-making body could be called. Moreover, there could be ﬁnancial
stability related reasons why the central bank may conduct additional open
market operations in a liquidity crisis are as follows. First, liquidity injec-
tions through OMOs could show the pro-activeness of the central bank:
even if open market operations were not crucial in themselves, they may be
a signal that the central bank is ready to act through more substantial
means. Second, liquidity injections may incite those banks who have less
problems (e.g. because they have comfortable liquidity or collateral buffers)
to lend to those who have problems, because e.g. they may run out of
central bank eligible collateral. For instance, one could imagine that good
banks want to be sure to not have to take recourse to the borrowing facility
at day end, but once this is sure, they would be ready to lend their funds in
the overnight interbank market, and at least their propensity to do so will
increase if they obtained additional cheap liquidity through an OMO
injection. Third, banks may generally like to avoid recourse to the bor-
rowing facility due to stigmatization. If open market operations allow
avoiding that some banks have to go to the borrowing facility, and that this
allows avoiding identiﬁcation of those banks who have exceptional central
bank reﬁnancing needs, then this relative suppression of information could
stabilize the system, since it avoids that runs on single banks take place.
Fourth, if the collateral set in a special open market operation would be
wider than in normal open market operations or in the borrowing facility,
then this would be a way to inject additional liquidity in a controlled way
against such additional collateral (as the Fed did in December 2007).
By limiting the volume of the operation, the central bank could also limit
the volume of such collateral it receives. Finally, banks may have strong
preferences on the maturity structure of their liabilities vis-a`-vis the central
bank, i.e. they may prefer long-term OMOs relative to short-term OMOs,
and even more relative to recourse to an overnight borrowing facility. This
could reﬂect the fact they do not have full trust in central bank inertia (see
Section 5), or that they are subject to some liquidity regulation which sets
constraints on the maturity of liabilities (this was particularly relevant for
German banks in the second half of 2007), or that they are just keen to get
longer-term liquidity at a relatively low rate.
Injecting additional central bank reserves into the banking system
through OMOs in a ﬁnancial crisis could also have some disadvantages.
First, by being ‘activist’, the central bank may send a signal that it knows
unpleasant things about the true state of the market, which the market itself
does not know yet. Second, in a reserve maintenance period with averaging,
426
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 455 ---
injecting excess reserves on some days probably means, at least to some
extent, that subsequent reserve deﬁcits need to rise before the end of the
reserve maintenance period. Third, lengthening the maturity of outstanding
central bank operations could have the drawback of ‘blocking’ more
liquidity with some banks over the longer term, which, in case of non-
functioning interbank markets, would mean that it is no longer available to
be channeled in the short term through short-term OMOs to the banks
which have particular liquidity needs.
It may also be worth noting that in the Institute of International Finance
(2007) study on liquidity risk management, not one single explicit recom-
mendation to central banks seems to relate to injection of aggregate
liquidity through OMOs as an FCM measure. Instead, all explicit recom-
mendations (41–2) relate to collateral issues. This could suggest that indeed,
special OMOs in a ﬁnancial crisis context may have mainly the purpose of
controlling short-term interest rates. The policies to be formulated ex ante
in FCM-OMOs are also of interest from a risk management perspective,
since these operations will increase risk taking linearly, and therefore need
to be well justiﬁed. The eventual justiﬁcation of these operations is likely to
be related to liquidity risk considerations of banks. This should be analysed
in more depth.
6.2 Narrowing the spread of the borrowing facility vis-a`-vis target rate
In case that liquidity and/or infrastructure problems force banks to use
extensively the borrowing facility, the central bank may want to alleviate
associated costs by lowering the penalty rate applied to the borrowing
facility. The ECB did so for instance for the ﬁrst two weeks of the euro (in
January 1999), and the Fed did so in August 2007. Again, this may appear at
a ﬁrst look more as a psychological measure, as it should not be decisive
whether banks take overnight loans from the central bank at e.g. þ100
or þ25 basis points. The following advantages of narrowing the penalty
spread associated with a borrowing facility could still be considered. First, it
could be argued that any sign of central bank pro-activeness is useful in a
crisis situation. Second, decreasing costs to banks, even if only marginally,
cannot harm in a crisis situation. Third, this measure could avoid some of
the major disadvantages of an excess reserve injection through OMOs, as in
particular the destabilizing of the reserve fulﬁllment path. Also, lowering the
borrowing facility rate may appear less alarmist and may less be misinter-
preted as revealing that the central bank knows something bad that the
427
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 456 ---
market does not know yet. Finally, it could be seen as an invitation of the
banks to use the facility, and to reiterate that there should be no stigma-
tization associated with recourse. This is what the Fed may have tried to
achieve in August–September 2007.
Possible disadvantages of a narrowing of the spread could be: First, as not
decisive – why do it at all if it still may alarm banks, and may be misun-
derstood as a monetary policy move? Second, by reducing the penalty
spread relative to the target rate, the central bank weakens incentives to
reactivate the interbank money market. If a spread of e.g. 100 basis points is
deemed optimal under smooth interbank market conditions in terms of
providing disincentives against its use, then e.g. 50 basis points is clearly too
little under conditions of a dysfunctional interbank market.
Maybe there is some low spread level where many banks would make use
of the facility such as to overcome the stigmatization effect, so suddenly
reducing the perceived full costs dramatically. For example, if the spread
would be lowered to 5 basis points, use would probably become common,
and stigmatization would vanish. Central banks probably want that:
(i) stigmatization of recourse is avoided, which requires that there are quite
some banks that take recourse for pragmatic reasons; (ii) the interbank
market, however, has still room to breath, i.e. that banks continue lending
to good banks in the interbank market. Ideally, the lowering of the spread
could lead to a situation in which the gain of conﬁdence effect would be
such that interbank-market volumes at the end increase again due to this
measure. Comparing the Eurosystem with the Fed suggests the following: as
the Fed has anyway an asymmetric corridor (because it has no deposit
facility) and as US banks have low reserve requirements, surplus banks have
far stronger incentives to try to get rid of their excess funds in the interbank
market, and this is not affected by a lowering of the spread between the
target rate and the discount rate. Therefore, a lowering of the discount rate
has more chances to have predominantly positive effects on the interbank
market than it would have in the case of a symmetric narrowing in case of
the Eurosystem.
6.3 Widening of collateral set
While ELA to individual banks typically involves a widening of the collateral
set (since otherwise the borrowing facility could do the job), it can also be
conceived that such a widening is done on an aggregate basis, i.e. main-
taining equal access of all central bank counterparties. The central bank
428
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 457 ---
increases available collateral by accepting a class of paper normally not
accepted (e.g. Equity, commercial paper, bank bonds, credit claims, real
estate, foreign currency assets etc.), or it could lower rating requirements for
an existing asset class (require a BBB rating instead of an A rating). In case
of two separate collateral sets for open market operations (narrow set) and
standing facilities (wider set), a measure could also be to accept excep-
tionally the latter set for open market operations, such as was done by the
Bank of Canada and the Fed in the second half of 2007. Even if applying
equally to all banks, the central bank could choose a way to widen the
collateral set which effectively targets a certain group of banks (or even a
single bank), who are known to have the relevant collateral (but this could
be inappropriate due to moral hazard).
The literature ever since the nineteenth century has taken different pos-
itions with regard to the widening of eligible collateral. As seen above, one
would interpret Harman’s 1832 description of Bank of England action in
1825 (‘We lent . . . by every possible means, and in modes that we never had
adopted before’) as the position that being innovative and extending the
collateral set is crucial and useful in a crisis (he is not saying: ‘we lent
volumes as never before’, but is really referring to innovative collateraliza-
tion or asset types purchased outright). Bagehot in contrast could be
interpreted as arguing to lend only against assets which are normally eligible
(‘advancing on what in ordinary times is reckoned a good security on what is
then commonly pledged and easily convertible’).
Still today, different positions are found. For instance Rajan (Financial
Times, 7 September 2007, ‘Central banks face a liquidity trap’) seems to
have Bagehot in mind and argues that the central bank should not accept in
particular illiquid securities. In contrast, Buiter and Sibert (blog: 12 August
2007, ‘The central bank as market maker of last resort 1’) take side with
Harman’s view of 1832 and argue that it is crucial that the central bank
accepts illiquid security in a crisis situation, even if this is a particular
challenge and implies additional risks (see also introductory quote to this
paper from this blog). They argue provocatively that the central banks
should do nothing less than becoming the ‘market maker of last resort’.
While some parts of the Buiter–Sibert propositions may appear doubtful
and exaggerated (in particular the suggestion to do both repos and reverse
repos at once, and to do outright operations), the substance, namely that
the list of eligible collateral could be speciﬁcally widened in a crisis period to
illiquid assets, makes potential sense under some circumstances, and is in
principle in line with Harman’s view of 1832.
429
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 458 ---
In contrast to the two previously discussed equal access FCM measures
(liquidity injection through OMOs and narrowing the corridor set by
standing facilities), there is no doubt that an aggregate widening of the
collateral set is highly effective to defuse liquidity problems of banks, in
particular if the additional collateral volumes are substantial and if they are
with those banks which could otherwise be most vulnerable to the liquidity
squeeze. That a widening of the collateral set may be the most substantial
equal access FCM measure is also suggested by the fact that all the explicit
conclusions addressed to central banks in the Institute of International
Finance (2007) report on liquidity risk management relate to collateral. In
comparison with individual bank ELA, equal access widening of the eligible
collateral set seem to have mainly two advantages: ﬁrst, it may be more
efﬁcient since it allows helping a high number of banks and requires little if
any demanding administrative and legal procedures; second, by avoiding
making public failed counterparty names as it would be the case for indi-
vidual ELA, it may avoid further deterioration of the market conﬁdence and
disruption of business relations.
However, some disadvantages of a general widening of the collateral set
also need to be considered when taking such a decision. First, one may
argue that ideally, the central bank always accepts a wide range of collateral,
and this is, together with a stability-oriented monetary policy, the best
general contribution that the central bank can make to ﬁnancial stability. If
the central bank did not accept a certain asset class in normal times, then
this was probably for good reasons, such as for example (i) legal ambiguity;
(ii) high handling or risk assessment costs; (iii) low liquidity compared to
other types of ﬁnancial assets; (iv) difﬁculties to value the assets. All these
drawbacks also hold in a crisis scenario. Some of them, like handling costs,
become less relevant in case of a crisis. In contrast, the weaknesses in terms
of risk management (credit assessment and valuation difﬁculties) are likely
to intensify in a crisis situation. Therefore the result of the cost–beneﬁt
analysis remains undetermined a priori. Moreover, the central bank will
have little experience with these assets in a crisis situation, which increases
operational and ﬁnancial risks further. Individual (ex post) ELA has lower
such risks due to the more limited scale of the use of additional types of
collateral and due to the possibility to set up a tailor-made arrangement.
Finally, as this measure is an effective one in helping banks that are in
trouble and that have the respective collateral, while at the same time
allowing these banks to avoid the humiliation and substantial consequences
430
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 459 ---
for management and equity holders of having to request ELA from the
central bank, it may be considered to be particularly subject to moral hazard
issues.
Deciding on a widening of the set of eligible collateral (or a relaxation of
risk control measures such as limits), will depend on: (i) the beneﬁts of
doing so in terms of ﬁnancial stability; (ii) operational and legal consid-
erations, including lead times; (iii) risk management considerations – i.e.
how much additional risk would the central bank be taking, and how can it
contain this risk through appropriate risk controls; (iv) moral hazard
considerations. It is useful to have thought in depth through all of these
aspects well in advance, as this increases the likelihood of taking the right
decisions under the time pressures of a crisis.
6.4 Other equal access FCM measures
For instance, after 11 September 2001, the ECB provided US dollar liquidity
to euro area banks through special swap operations (see press release of ECB
dated 13 September 2001). In December 2007, the ECB provided USD
liquidity against euro-denominated collateral (see press release of the ECB
of 12 December 2007). Generally, it appears that access to foreign currency
and the use of foreign collateral is an important topic under ﬁnancial stress
which may deserve special FCM measures in crisis times. International
banks typically do business in different currencies, and are thus subject to
liquidity shocks in these different currencies. At the same time, they may
have collateral in different currencies and settled in different regions of
the world. Ideally, collateral could be used as one large pool for liquidity
shocks arising in whatever currency. In normal practice, central banks
however tend to limit collateral eligibility to such assets located and
denominated in their own currency/jurisdiction12. In a crisis situation,
readiness of central banks to relax such constraints may increase, whereby a
currency mismatch typically needs to be addressed through some extra
haircut on collateral.
Cross-border use of collateral has for instance been analysed by Manning
and Willison (2006). Also the Basel Committee on Payment and Settlement
12 CPSS (2006, 3) suggests some reasons: ‘Issues relating to jurisdictional conflict, regulation, taxation and exchange
controls also arise in crossborder securities transactions. Although these issues may be very complex, they could be
crucial in evaluating the costs and risks of accepting foreign collateral.’
431
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 460 ---
Systems (CPSS) has published a report in 2006 on ‘Cross border collateral
arrangements’. Page 3 of this report explained that:
Some central banks note that the emergency use of cross-border collateral has the
potential to promote ﬁnancial stability during a crisis . . . [S]uch cross-border
collateral arrangements could allow banks to access collateral assets in a market that
may not have been directly affected by the emergency. Further, if foreign assets are
only accepted in case of emergency and there is a low probability that an emer-
gency-only facility will be triggered, banks may have a lower incentive to economise
on precautionary collateral holdings and will, therefore, have a larger pool of
collateral on which to draw in the event of an emergency arising.
Also the Institute of International Finance (2007) report on liquidity risk
management invites central banks to take steps to permit cross-border
collateralization.
As any widening of the set of eligible collateral, the acceptance of inter-
national collateral is potentially highly effective to address liquidity tensions.
It may imply only limited additional risks to the central bank if operational,
legal and ﬁnancial risk management aspects have been studied carefully
ex ante.
6.5 Conclusions: the role of equal access FCM measures
A modern central bank credit framework is typically characterized by
including a borrowing facility which allows obtaining central bank funds at
a limited penalty (up to 100 basis points) against a very wide range of
eligible assets. The relevance of any equal access FCM measure has to be
assessed against the existence of such a facility, implying in particular that
the effectiveness of the injection of excess reserves through OMO as an FCM
measure seems to relate to a number of not totally obvious effects, like
(i) the stigmatization of recourse to the borrowing facility; (ii) uncertainty
of banks about the central bank sticking to the inertia principle (i.e.
restricting access to the borrowing facility); (iii) maturity preferences of
banks vis-a`-vis central bank reﬁnancing, for instance because of liquidity
regulations; (iv) an increased willingness of banks which hold excess
reserves to lend in a liquidity crisis to other banks which have no collateral.
All of these effects may be relevant and thus may justify FCM-OMOs. In any
case, additional liquidity injections through OMOs in a crisis are sufﬁciently
justiﬁed as monetary policy measures, namely to steer interbank market
rates again closer to the target policy rate, which is a sufﬁcient justiﬁcation.
432
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 461 ---
An equal access widening of the collateral set is quite of a different nature:
it may be a highly effective measure, but it also could invoke substantial
additional risk taking of the central bank and can cause moral hazard. A
careful design of risk mitigation measures is obviously warranted. The
decision between equal access and individual bank (ELA) widening of the
collateral set has to be taken on the basis of a number of parameters
characterizing the crisis, whereby the equal access variant could be the more
attractive: (i) the higher the number of banks that need help and that would
be helped through the widening of the collateral set; (ii) the more easily one
ﬁnds additional collateral types that can be made eligible with a non-
excessive increase in operational, credit and market risks, taking duly into
account that the central bank is not necessarily an institution with high
expertise and capacities in handling these risks; (iii) the more one is worried
that individual bank ELA should be avoided because it further would
intensify the sentiment of disaster and ﬁnancial market crisis; (iv) the less
one needs to be concerned with moral hazard (e.g. because a really extreme
external event has triggered the crisis).
For the central bank, it seems essential to be well prepared to take the
relevant decisions in a relatively short period of time. In particular for the
equal access FCM measures, open market operations and the lowering of
the borrowing facility rate, there are no important moral hazard issues at
stake, and therefore there is no reason to not prepare detailed internal
policies, as there is little harm if these are leaked. That one attempts to
formulate such policies does not mean that actual execution would be
mechanical. Almost by deﬁnition, every ﬁnancial market crisis will be dif-
ferent, and therefore the optimal central bank actions cannot be anticipated
in every detail. But accepting this uncertainty is far from accepting the
conclusion that one should not try hard to think through the different cases
and agree on a general policy. This may allow saving decisive time in a crisis
situation, and thereby to avoid mistakes. Also on the possibilities to widen
the collateral set, some internal policies should be elaborated in advance by
the central bank. Many issues, such as legal and operational ones, take time
to be analysed, and it will certainly help if the central bank knows in advance
for all possibly relevant asset classes what the respective issues would be if
considering making them eligible in some crisis situation. Also, risk control
measures (credit quality requirements, valuation, limits and haircuts)
should have been considered in advance. It is useful to analyse in advance
the relevant crisis scenarios, and under which circumstances which types of
assets could be useful. As this will necessarily be speculative and will not
433
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 462 ---
imply any commitment, moral hazard arguments should again not be a
sufﬁcient argument for internal preparation. Preparation also gives more
time to think about how to counteract moral hazard, and maybe what
rescue operations to avoid under almost any circumstances due to moral
hazard.
7. FCM measures addressed to individual banks (ELA)
ELA to individual banks may also be called ‘ex post’ FCM, since it is done
once serious liquidity problems have materialized. Some (e.g. Goodhart
1999) suggest using the ‘lender of last resort’ (LOLR) expression only in this
case of liquidity assistance, which sounds reasonable as it comes last, after
possible ex ante FCM measures. Individual bank FCM is typically made
public sooner or later, and then risks to further deteriorate the market
sentiment, even if its intention is exactly the opposite, namely to reassure
the system that the central bank helps. A decision to provide single-bank
ELA will have to consider in particular the following parameters, assuming
the simplest possible setting:
 B ¼ the social beneﬁts of saving a bank from becoming illiquid. This will
depend on the size of the bank, and on its type of business. It could also
depend on moral hazard aspects: i.e. if the moral hazard drawbacks of a
rescue are large, then the net social beneﬁts will be correspondingly lower.
 L ¼ size of the liquidity gap of the bank.
 C ¼ value of the collateral that the bank can post to cover the ELA.
 A ¼ net asset value of the bank ( net discounted proﬁts).
In principle, all four of the variables can be considered to be random
variables, whereby prudent supervision experts may contribute to reduce
the subjective randomness with regard to A, central bank risk managers with
regard to C, and ﬁnancial stability experts with regards to B. Lawyers’
support is obviously needed in all of this. Assuming for a moment that these
variables would be deterministic, one could make for instance the following
statements:
 If C > L, then there is no risk implied from providing ELA, and therefore
no need to be sure about B > 0 and/or A > 0.13
13 According to Hawtrey (1932), the central bank can avoid making a decision as to the solvency of a bank if it lends
only on collateral (referred to in Freixas et al. 1999).
434
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 463 ---
 If A<0, then the bank should probably be shut down in some orderly way.
The ‘orderly’ would probably mean achieving to the extent possible B.
 If C < L, then A > 0 is important, if the central bank does not want to
make losses.
 If C < L and L – C > B and A ¼ 0, then do not do ELA.
 If A < 0, i.e. the bank is in principle insolvent, the state may still want to
help if B is very large (i.e. B > A).
Assessing the sizes (or, more precisely, the probability distributions) of the
four variables will be crucial. This makes the joint analysis of prudent
supervisors, ﬁnancial stability experts and central bank risk managers even
more relevant. In a stochastic environment, the central bank will risk
making mistakes, such as in particular (i) to provide ELA although it should
not have done so (maybe because it overestimated social beneﬁts, or the
value of collateral, or the value of the net assets of the central banks) and
(ii) to not provide ELA although it should have (e.g. because it underesti-
mates the devastation caused by the failure, etc. – see also Sveriges Riksbank
2003, 64). The likelihood of making mistakes will depend on the ability of
the different experts to do their job to reduce the uncertainty associated
with the different random variables, and to cooperate effectively on this.14
A number of considerations may be brieﬂy recalled here:
 Collateral set: The collateral will consist in non-standard collateral, so
probably less liquid, less easy to value, less easy to settle, etc. than the
normal central bank collateral. Central bank risk managers will not only
be required to assess this collateral and associated risk control measures
ex ante, but also to monitor the value of collateral across time.
 Moral hazard would be addressed mainly by ensuring that equity holders
and senior management suffer. This issue should be thought through ex
ante. Setting a high lending rate may also be useful under some
circumstances.
 Good communication is critical to ensure that the net psychological
effect of the announcement of an individual ELA is positive.
As mentioned, the Sveriges Riksbank, the Bank of Canada (BoC), and the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority (1999) have chosen an approach to specify
ex ante their policy framework for individual bank ELA. With regard to the
14 ELA to individual banks is only marginally a central bank liquidity management issue, since the liquidity impact to a
single bank relating to ELA will simply be absorbed by reducing the volume of a regular open market operation.
Central bank liquidity management issues will thus probably never be decisive to decide on whether or not to
provide individual ELA.
435
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 464 ---
precondition for ELA, the HKMA (Hong Kong Monetary Authority)
speciﬁes inter alia: (i) sufﬁcient margin of solvency – at least 6 per cent
capital adequacy ratio after making adjustments for any additional provi-
sions; (ii) adequate collateralization of ELA support – adequate instruments
are precisely deﬁned as consisting of purchase of the institution’s place-
ments with other banks, acceptable for HKMA, reverse repos against
investment grade securities, and credit collateralized by residential mortgage
portfolios; (iii) institution has sought other reasonable sources of founding;
(iv) no prima facie evidence that the management is not ﬁt and proper;
(v) institution must be prepared to take remedial action to deal with its
liquidity problem. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (1999, 79) also
sets a limit for ELA: ‘Notwithstanding the availability of suitable collateral,
the HKMA will set a limit on the maximum amount of LOLR support
provided to an individual institution via repos or the credit facility . . . The
limit would normally be set between 100 per cent to 200 per cent of the
capital base . . . depending on the margin of solvency the institution can
maintain . . . subject to a cap of HK$ 10 billion.’
Daniel et al. (2004, 8–9) also speciﬁes explicitly a number of conditions
for and speciﬁcations of individual ELA in Canada:
(i)
maximum maturity of six months and one six-months renewal;
(ii) rate of interest – bank rate or higher (so far Bank of Canada applied its
bank rate, i.e. no penalty rate);
(iii) collateral:
In practice, it would be expected that the borrowing institution would use its
holdings of marketable securities to obtain liquidity from the private sector
before approaching BoC for ELA. If appropriate, the Bank could provide ELA
loans on the pledge or hypothecation of assets that are not subject to as precise
a valuation as are readily marketable securities. For example, the Bank may
provide loans against the security of the Canadian-dollar non-mortgage loan
portfolio of the institution, which can make up a signiﬁcant portion of the
institution’s assets. Because the composition of a loan portfolio changes over
time and the valuation of individual loans is subject to ﬂuctuation, the bank
would likely take as security a ﬂoating charge against the institution’s loan
portfolio (under the law, mortgages are considered to be a conveyance of ‘real
property’, which the bank cannot take as collateral) . . . the bank endeavours to
minimize its exposure to loss in the event of default by the borrowing ﬁnancial
institution. Thus, it is important for the bank to have a valid ﬁrst-priority
security interest in any collateral pledged to support ELA. (Daniel 2004, 10)
436
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 465 ---
(iv) eligibility of banks – only to banks which are judged to be solvent. ELA
does not create new capital;
(v)
ELA agreement creates a one-day, revolving facility in which the BoC
has discretion to decline to make any further one-day loans (e.g. if it is
judged that the institution is insolvent, or available collateral has a
higher risk of being inadequate).
8. Conclusions
The summer 2007 liquidity crisis has revealed that views on adequate
central bank FCM are heterogeneous. Central banks took rather different
approaches, and split views were expressed by central bank ofﬁcials on what
was right or wrong. This could appear astonishing, taking into account that:
(i) FCM and associated liquidity support is supposed to come second in the
list of central bank core functions, directly after monetary policy; (ii) FCM
is a topic on which economists have made some rather clear statements
already more than 200 years ago; and (iii) there is an extensive theoretical
microeconomic literature on the usefulness and functioning of (some) FCM
measures.
How can this be explained? Most importantly, many commentators did
not care that many of the FCM issues frequently quoted (e.g. moral hazard)
are applicable to some of its variants, but not to others. Also the academic
literature has contributed to this, by often not starting from a clear typology
of FCM measures. The relevance of some comments in the summer of 2007
also suffered from a lack of understanding of the mechanics of the central
bank balance sheet and how it determines the interaction between central
bank credit operations and the ‘liquidity’ available to banks.
This chapter aimed at being pragmatic by, ﬁrst of all, proposing a typology
of FCM measures, such that the subject of analysis becomes clearer. The
central bank risk manager perspective is relevant, since FCM is about
providing unusual amounts and/or unusually secured central bank credit in
circumstances of increased credit risk, valuation difﬁculties and liquidity
risk. While the central bank is normally a pale and risk averse public
investor, a ﬁnancial crisis makes it mutate into an institution which wants
to shoulder considerable risks. The central bank risk manager is crucial to
ensure that such courage is complemented by prudence, that if help is
provided, it is done in a way that is not more risky than necessary, and that
437
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 466 ---
an estimate of ﬁnancial risk taking associated with FCM measures is pro-
vided as a key element of the cost–beneﬁt analysis that should underlie any
FCM decision. Amongst the conclusions drawn in this paper, the following
eight may be highlighted.
First, in terms of putting order into the different types of FCM measures,
it is crucial to distinguish between equal access (ex ante) and individual
(ex post) measures, as well as between whether they include or not the
widening of the set of eligible collateral. Without making these distinctions,
it is very difﬁcult to make generally correct statements about FCM meas-
ures. Relating to this, it often leads to wrong conclusion to refer to state-
ments by Bagehot (1873) when commenting on some FCM operation if this
operation is rather different from what Bagehot had in mind.
Second, a ﬁrst crucial contribution of the central bank to ﬁnancial
stability is the design of its normal operational framework, whereby a wide
collateral set and not unnecessarily restrictive risk control measures are key.
Also various other dimensions such as the distinction of collateral sets
between open market operations and the borrowing facility, the size of the
liquidity deﬁcit of banks to be covered through reverse operations, the
existence or not of reserve requirements and averaging, are all interesting
but under-researched dimensions of the operational framework which will
be relevant for the built-in stability of the interbank money market.
Third, the fundamental principle of inertia as the central bank’s key
contribution to ﬁnancial stability in crisis situation was developed, stating
essentially that the central bank should never restrict its collateral and risk
management framework in a crisis situation, even if this implies that it ends
up with much more ﬁnancial risk than normally, and is the only agent in the
market which does not react to changed circumstances. Central bank
commitment to inertia (i.e. to at least not restrict credit) will be a basis for
banks to plan how to sort out a crisis and to survive. Uncertainty about the
possibility of restrictive moves by the central bank is exactly what the
banking system will not easily digest as additional stress in a crisis. Inertia
certainly does not mean that the central bank should be blind on its
ﬁnancial risk taking in a crisis situation – quite the contrary – ﬁnancial
risks as also implied by inertia should be measured and reported in a
sophisticated way.
Fourth, the usefulness for ﬁnancial stability of aggregate liquidity injec-
tions through open market operations remains relatively little explored,
apart from a number of relatively soft arguments such as the psychological
effect of showing central bank pro-activeness. At the same time, their
438
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 467 ---
effectiveness in lowering short-term interbank interest rates is undisputed,
so they may be understood in any case as monetary policy instrument in a
crisis situation. Their possible effectiveness for ﬁnancial stability also may
emerge from a stigmatization of the central bank borrowing facility, which
the summer 2007 episode conﬁrms to be an issue. Reducing this stigma-
tization should therefore be an objective of central banks.
Fifth, an equal access widening of the set of collateral for central bank
credit operations is likely to be the most effective ex ante FCM measure to
contribute to ﬁnancial stability. At the same time, it is the most challenging
in terms of additional central bank risk taking and possible moral hazard
issue. Its usefulness will obviously depend on how wide the set of eligible
collateral is under normal circumstances.
Sixth, individual bank (or ex post) FCM measures (ELA) are also about
widening eligible collateral, and are thereby also challenging in terms of
central bank risk management. Compared to equal access widening of the
collateral set, ELA appears to have some advantages, such as allowing the
central bank to focus on one (or hopefully not more than a very few)
institution(s), and to allow addressing more effectively moral hazard since
the central bank and regulators could make sure that shareholders and
senior management would be held responsible. On the other side, it is clear
that ELA often does not defuse market tensions, and means a large
administrative, legal and operational burden of the central bank.
Seventh, from a practitioner, and even more a risk manager perspective,
the concept of constructive ambiguity appears to have some drawbacks. It
may lead to weaker preparation, less accountability and transparency, more
noise and uncertainty for the market, and maybe at the end even less
punishment of those who would deserve to be punished since they took
irresponsible risk at the expense of the ﬁnancial system’s stability. At least
three advanced central banks have demonstrated that an effort for trans-
parency and the establishment of rules can be made. This of course should
not mean that there is a mechanistic commitment of the central bank to
help, i.e. there is no ‘ELA facility’.
Eighth, relating to the previous point, being prepared to implement FCM
is crucial in reaching the right decisions when under time pressure, in
particular from the risk management perspective. Key questions to be
thought through as much as possible in ‘times of peace’ are for instance:
Which asset types are candidates for widening the set of eligible collateral?
Why is some type of collateral not accepted under normal circumstances,
but should be under certain crisis events? What set-up issues will occur
439
Central bank financial crisis management

--- Página 468 ---
(e.g. how to make the collateral eligible in the short run without legal and
operational risks?). What haircuts will be appropriate? How exactly can one
deﬁne eligibility criteria to have a clear frontier against hybrid asset types?
Under what circumstances would limits be useful? Should additional col-
lateral be only for the borrowing facility, or also for open market oper-
ations? How can one measure central bank risk taking in crisis situations,
such as to ensure awareness of what price the central bank pays in terms of
risk taking for maintaining inertia? A long list of similar questions can be
noted down for other areas of ELA, such as the role of additional open
market operations.
If central banks work on such practical FCM topics in a transparent way,
one should expect that if once again, some day in the future, a liquidity
crisis like the one in the summer of 2007 begins, there could be less mis-
understandings and less debate about the right way for central banks to act.
440
Bindseil, U.

--- Página 469 ---
Part III
Organizational issues and
operational risk

--- Página 471 ---
12
Organizational issues in the risk
management function of central banks
Evangelos Tabakis
1. Introduction
Risk management as a separate function in a central bank, with resources
speciﬁcally dedicated to it, is a rather new development in the world of
central banking. This may be considered surprising since central banks are,
effectively, risk managers for the ﬁnancial system as a whole. In their core
functions of designing and implementing monetary policy and safeguarding
ﬁnancial stability, they manage the risk of inﬂation1 and the systemic risks
inherent in ﬁnancial crises. Strangely however, until recently, they had not
paid as much attention to the management of their own balance sheet risks
that emanate from their market operations. A change is obvious in the last
ﬁfteen to twenty years. In part as a consequence of the general acceptance
of the principle of central bank independence, central banks have been
rethinking their governance structure. After all, ﬁnancial independence of
the central banks is an important element in supporting institutional
independence from ﬁscal authorities and understanding, managing and
accurately reporting on ﬁnancial risks is necessary to control ﬁnancial
results. At the same time central banks as investors are facing increased
challenges. Some have accumulated considerable sizes of foreign reserves
and need to invest them in a diversiﬁed manner. This in turn makes them
exposed to more complicated markets and more sophisticated instruments.
Finally, risk management expertise is increasingly in demand in order to
understand the complexity of risk transfer mechanisms in ﬁnancial markets
and detect potential risks of systemic nature.
In view of these developments, issues relating to the organization of the
risk management function in the central bank are actively discussed in the
1 For an interesting analysis of the parallels between the risk management function in a financial institution and the
management of inflation risks in particular by the central bank see Kilian and Manganelli (2003).
443

--- Página 472 ---
central bank community. A number of questions such as the position of
the risk management function in the organization of the central bank, the
amount of resources dedicated to it, the types and frequency of reporting,
the form of cooperation with other business areas and in particular those
that take risks, the synergies between ﬁnancial and operational risk mana-
gement, the challenges of recruiting and training staff have yet to ﬁnd their
optimal answers. This chapter does not provide them either. However, it
does attempt to provide a way of thinking about these questions which is
consistent with ﬁnancial theory, regulatory directives and best practices in
ﬁnancial institutions while, at the same time, considering the idiosyncrasies
of the central bank.
2. Relevance of the risk management function in a central bank
What is the added value of risk management for a central bank? Addressing
this question would provide guidance as to how to best organize the risk
management function and how to distribute available resources. The
academic and policy-related literature indicates two ways to approach this
question.
First, one could look at the central bank as a ﬁnancial institution. After
all, central banks are active in ﬁnancial markets, albeit not necessarily in the
same way as private ﬁnancial institutions, have counterparties to which they
lend or from which they borrow money, engage in securities and com-
modities (e.g. gold) transactions and, therefore, face ﬁnancial risks. Since its
establishment in 1974 and perhaps more importantly since the introduction
of the ﬁrst version of the Basel Capital Accord in 1988, the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision (BCBS) has been the driving force for the advan-
cement in measuring and managing ﬁnancial risks. The goal of the Com-
mittee has been the standardization of capital adequacy frameworks for
ﬁnancial institutions throughout the international banking system with the
aim to establish a level playing ﬁeld. As capital and other ﬁnancial buffers of
ﬁnancial institutions should be proportional to the ﬁnancial risks that these
institutions face, the guidance provided by the Basel Committee in the New
Basel Accord in 2004–6 has set the standards that ﬁnancial institutions need
to follow in the measurement and management of market, credit and
operational risks. Implementing such standards has become increasingly
complicated and has led ﬁnancial institutions to increase substantially their
investment in risk management technology and know-how.
444
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 473 ---
However, the fact that central banks have the privilege to issue legal tender
as well as the observation that in some cases central banks have been operat-
ing successfully on negative capital, may cast doubts as to whether the capital
adequacy argument, and the resulting importance of risk management, is
equally relevant for the central bank. These considerations are examined in
Bindseil et al. (2004a) where it is argued that, while annual ﬁnancial results may
be less important for a central bank, securing adequate (i.e. at least positive)
capital buffers in the long run remains an important goal, linked to the
maintenance of the ﬁnancial independence from the government and of the
credibility of the central bank. Therefore, ultimately, the risk management
function of the central bank strengthens its independence and credibility.
Second, the central bank can be seen as a ﬁrm. The corporate ﬁnance
literature has looked into the role of risk management in the ﬁrm in general.
Smith and Stulz (1985) have argued that managing ﬁnancial risks of the
ﬁrm adds value to the ﬁrm only if the stockholder cannot manage these
risks at the same cost in the ﬁnancial markets. Stulz (2003) reformulates this
result into his ‘risk management irrelevance proposition’ according to which
‘hedging a risk does not increase ﬁrm value when the cost of bearing the risk
is the same whether the risk is borne within the ﬁrm or outside the ﬁrm by
the capital markets’. This principle is applicable only under the assumption
of efﬁcient and therefore frictionless markets. Some central banks are public
ﬁrms, while for others it could be assumed that they are, ultimately, owned
by the taxpayers. In both cases, it is doubtful whether every stock owner or
taxpayer could hedge the ﬁnancial risks to which the central bank is exposed
in the ﬁnancial markets at the same cost. This seems to be even more difﬁcult
for risks entailed in very speciﬁc operations initiated by central banks such
as policy operations. In a very similar way, Crouhy et al. (2001) argue that
managing business-speciﬁc risks (e.g. the risk of fuel prices for an airline)
does increase the value of the ﬁrm. Interestingly enough, when carrying this
argument over to the case of a central bank, a basis is provided to argue that
the scope of risk management in central banks needs to go beyond the
central bank’s investment operations, and needs in particular to focus on
central bank speciﬁc, policy-related operations.
3. Risk management best practices for ﬁnancial institutions
The ﬁnancial industry has worked extensively on establishing best practices on
organizational issues including, in particular the role of the risk management
445
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 474 ---
function within the ﬁnancial institution. There is less clarity on the extent
to which these guidelines should apply to central banks because of the
speciﬁcities in the mandate, risk appetite and risk-taking incentives of these
institutions (see also Chapter 1 of this book). However, according to the
conclusions of the last section, it is certainly useful for central bankers to
take into account the general principles and best practices available for
ﬁnancial institutions even if considerations of the speciﬁc business of the
central bank may require some adaptations. There is no lack of guidance
provided for the organization of the risk management function in ﬁnancial
institutions both from regulatory and supervisory agencies and as a result
of market initiatives.
In the ﬁrst category, the BCBS has become the main source of guidance
for ﬁnancial institutions in developing their risk management framework.
The publication of the New Basel Capital Accord (Basel II) has set up a
detailed framework for the computation of capital charges for market, credit
and operational risk. While the purpose of Basel II is not to provide best
practices for risk management, it implicitly does so by requiring that banks
develop the means to measure their risks and translate them into capital
requirements. When following some of the most advanced approaches
suggested (e.g. the Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) approach for the mea-
surement of credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA)
for operational risk) banks would need to invest considerably in developing
their risk management and measuring capabilities. Furthermore the dis-
closure requirements outlined under Pillar III (market discipline) include
speciﬁc requests to banks for transparency in their risk management
approaches and methodologies (see BCBS 2006b for details).
The relation between the supervisory process and risk management
requirements is emphasized also in BCBS (2006c). In the paper, the Com-
mittee underlines that
supervisors must be satisﬁed that banks and banking groups have in place a com-
prehensive risk management process (including Board and senior management
oversight) to identify, evaluate, monitor and control or mitigate all material risks
and to assess their overall capital adequacy in relation to their risk proﬁle. These
processes should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the institution.
In addition BCBS has published a number of papers that address particular
risk management topics. BCBS (2004) deals speciﬁcally with the manage-
ment and supervision of interest rate risk. It contains sixteen important
principles covering all aspects of interest rate risk management ranging
446
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 475 ---
from the technical issues of monitoring and measuring interest rate risk to
governance topics (board responsibility and oversight) and internal controls
and disclosure requirements. To a great extent this paper complements
BCBS (2000b) that focused on principles for the management of credit risk
emphasizing that ‘exposure to credit risk continues to be the leading source
of problems in banks worldwide’.
The BCBS has also looked directly into the corporate governance struc-
ture for banking organizations (BCBS 2006a). The paper notes that ‘given
the important ﬁnancial intermediation role of banks in an economy, their
high degree of sensitivity to potential difﬁculties arising from ineffective
corporate governance and the need to safeguard depositors’ funds, cor-
porate governance for banking organizations is of great importance to the
international ﬁnancial system and merits targeted supervisory guidance’.
The BCBS already published guidance in 1999 to assist banking supervisors
in promoting the adoption of sound corporate governance practices by
banking organizations in their countries. This guidance drew from prin-
ciples of corporate governance that were published earlier that year by the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (see also OECD
2004) for a revised version) with the purpose of assisting governments in
their efforts to evaluate and improve their frameworks for corporate gov-
ernance and to provide guidance for ﬁnancial market regulators and par-
ticipants in ﬁnancial markets.
Finally, the BCBS has already in 1998 provided a framework for internal
control systems, (BCBS 1998a) touching also on the important issue of
segregation of duties. The principles presented in this paper provide a useful
framework for the effective supervision of internal control systems. More
generally, the Committee wished to emphasize that sound internal controls
are essential to the prudent operation of banks and to promoting stability in
the ﬁnancial system as a whole.
A number of market initiatives for the establishment of sound practices
in risk management are also worth mentioning. The 2005 report of the
Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group II – building on the 1999
work of Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group I – is directed at
initiatives that will further reduce the risks of systemic ﬁnancial shocks and
limit their damage when, rarely but inevitably, such shocks occur. The
context of the report is today’s highly complex and tightly interconnected
global ﬁnancial system. The report’s recommendations and guiding prin-
ciples focus particular attention on risk management, risk monitoring and
enhanced transparency.
447
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 476 ---
Furthermore, the work of COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organiza-
tions of the Treadway Commission) on Enterprise Risk Management
(COSO 2004) should be mentioned even if it relates more to the manage-
ment of operational risks in an organization (see also Chapter 13 of this
book). It provides a benchmark for organizations to consider evaluating and
improving their enterprise risk management processes. A companion docu-
ment, ‘Applications Techniques’, is annexed to the Framework and provides
examples of leading practices in enterprise risk management.
Finally, the management of foreign reserves, one of the functions of a
central bank that bears clear similarities with asset management in private
banks, has attracted special attention by central banks and other institutions
(see e.g. IMF 2004; 2005 and the Bank of England Handbook in Central
Banking no. 19 (Nuge´e 2000)). Such publications necessarily include also an
analysis of the role of risk management in foreign reserves and are therefore
also useful references for the topic of this chapter. There does not seem to be
however so far a treatment of the risk management function in the central
bank as a whole from which one could deduce general principles for the
organization of such function.
4. Six principles in the organization of risk management
in central banks
The existence of an abundance of guidance for ﬁnancial institutions in setting
up and maintaining their risk management function has not necessarily
made the work of risk managers in central banks easier. Which of these
guidelines are applicable or even relevant in the central bank environment
remains an issue of debate. This section will concentrate on the six points
that, in the experience of the author have been most extensively discussed
within the central bank community.
4.1 Independence of the risk management function
The BCBS’s ‘Framework for internal control systems’ (BCBS 1998a)
includes the following fundamental principle: ‘An effective internal control
system requires that there is appropriate segregation of duties and that
personnel are not assigned conﬂicting responsibilities. Areas of potential
conﬂicts of interest should be identiﬁed, minimized, and subject to careful,
independent monitoring’ (Principle 6). The importance of the principle of
448
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 477 ---
segregation has become evident by the case of the Barings collapse in 1995
where unclear or non-existing separations between front, middle and back
ofﬁce allowed one person to take unusually high levels of ﬁnancial risks.
Today, segregation of tasks between risk management in ﬁnancial insti-
tutions and the risk takers of these institutions (responsible for either the
loan or the trade book of the bank) is sharp and reaches the top manage-
ment of the institution where, normally, the Chief Risk Ofﬁcer (CRO) of
the bank has equal footing with the Head of Treasury. This principle is
respected even if it results in some duplication of work and hence efﬁciency
losses. So, for example, trading desks and risk managers are routinely
required to develop and maintain different models to price complex instru-
ments to allow for a full control of the risk measurement process by the risk
managers.
It can be argued that the limited incentives of the central bank investor
to take risks imply that there is no signiﬁcant conﬂict in responsibilities
between the trading desk of the central banks and the risk management
function. Hence a clear separation at a level similar to that found in private
institutions (that reward management according to ﬁnancial results)2
conferring complete independence of risk management from any admini-
strative link to the senior management in risk-taking business areas of the
bank, is not necessary.
However, the recent trend of diversiﬁcation of investments in central
banks in particular in the case of accumulation of signiﬁcant foreign
reserves may indicate that this traditional central bank environment of low
risk appetite is changing. As the investment universe increases and the type
and level of ﬁnancial risks reaches other orders of magnitude, the need to
have a strong risk management function operating independently of the
centres of investment decisions in the bank will increase. Furthermore,
reputation risks and the need to ‘lead by example’ are also important central
bank considerations: central banks have the obligation to fulﬁll the same
standards that they expect from private ﬁnancial institutions, either in their
role as banking supervisors (where applicable) or simply as institutions with
a role in fostering ﬁnancial stability. In addition, the reputation risks asso-
ciated with what could be perceived as a weak risk management framework
could be considerable for the central bank even if the corresponding true
ﬁnancial risks are low.
2 For a thorough analysis of motivation and organizing performance in the modern firm see Roberts (2004).
449
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 478 ---
A more complex and even less-elaborated issue is the role of risk man-
agement in policy operations. Here it can be argued that the operational
area is not actively pursuing exposure to high risks (as this would have no
immediate reward) but rather attempts to fulﬁll the operational objectives
at a lower cost (for the central bank or for its counterparties) at the expense
of an adequate risk control framework (see also the model in Chapter 7). In
this situation as well, conﬂicting responsibilities arise, and segregation at an
adequate level that guarantees independence in reporting to top manage-
ment is needed.
How far up the central bank hierarchy should the separation of risk
management from the risk-taking business areas reach? A general answer
that may be ﬂexible enough to ﬁt various structures could be: the separation
should be clear enough to allow the independent reporting to decision
makers while allowing for opportunities to discuss issues and clarify views
before such divergent views are put on the decision-making table. An optimal
trade-off between the ability to report independently and the possibility to
work together with other business areas must be struck.3 In practice, the
choice is often as much a result of tradition and risk culture as it is one of
optimization of functionality.
4.2 Separation of the policy area from the investment area of the central
bank – the role of risk management (Chinese walls principle)
Central banks are an initial source of insider information on (i) the future
evolution of short-term interest rates, and (ii) on other types of central bank
policy actions (e.g. foreign exchange interventions) that can affect ﬁnancial
asset prices. Furthermore, central banks may acquire non-public infor-
mation of relevance for ﬁnancial asset prices from other sources, relating for
instance to their policy role in the area of ﬁnancial stability, or acquired
through international central bank cooperation.
Chinese walls are information barriers implemented within ﬁrms to
separate and isolate persons who make investment decisions from persons
who are privy to undisclosed material information which may inﬂuence
those decisions. Some central banks have created Chinese walls or other
similar mechanisms to avoid that policy insider information is used in an
inappropriate way for non-policy functions of the bank, such as for
3 In its first ten years of experience, the ECB has tried out various structures providing different degrees of
independence for the risk management function. Currently, the Risk Management Division has an independent
reporting line to the same Executive Board member to whom the Directorate General Market Operations also reports.
450
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 479 ---
investment decisions. However, it appears that different institutions have
very different understandings of the scope of this mechanism and the real or
reputation risks it is set to mitigate.
A further twist in this context is the role of the risk management function
in this schism. Although not taking investment decisions, the risk managers
of the central bank could provide indirectly an input in these decisions
by, for example, having a role in the strategic asset allocation of the bank’s
investment portfolios. At the same time, their role in the set-up and
monitoring of the risk control framework in policy operations would
require that they receive any policy-related information that would assist
them in this role.
While this appears to be a delicate issue, there are simple and pragmatic
rules that can be applied to overcome the above dilemma. Such rules
could for example specify that the input provided by risk managers in the
investment process is either provided ex post (e.g. through performance
measurement and attribution) or, when provided ex ante, it is based on a
transparent methodology and is free of taking private views on future market
developments. In practice this means that proposals on asset location for-
mulated (at the strategic level) by risk managers must be the result of a
structured procedure involving well-documented models and using only
publicly available information. Such procedures should generate an auditable
trail that would serve to prove at any given time that the input of risk
management in the investment process was not inﬂuenced by any insider
information.
4.3 Transparency and accountability
Internal and external transparency are prerequisites for the accountability of
top-level managers in the management of risks in a central bank. Internal
transparency, which is a key issue in the ﬁrst Counterparty Risk Manage-
ment Policy Group report, may be achieved by:
 the detailing of the execution of functions in manuals of procedures that
are regularly updated; and
 the regular reporting on risks and risk exposures to top-level management.
The core of risk management in any institution is the risk control function.
It often comprises several regular tasks to be fulﬁlled on a high-frequency
basis from a number of staff members. This requires detailed documentation
ofmodels,tasksandprocedures.Althoughnot themost excitingtask,preparing
and maintaining such documentation is an important, resource-intensive
451
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 480 ---
duty of the risk management function. It allows the completion of the tasks
by several staff members and supports knowledge transfer. It provides proof
of the correct application of procedures regardless of the person executing
the task, minimizing subjectivity and emphasizing rule-based decisions. It
guarantees and documents for any audit process that the risk management
processes have not been jeopardized by inﬂuences from other business
areas.
Important decisions on the level of risks taken by central banks must be
taken at the top level of the hierarchy. For this, however, top management
in any ﬁnancial institution depend on comprehensive and frequent
reporting on all risks and exposures that the bank carries at any moment.
An additional difﬁculty that arises in the central bank environment is that
reporting on risks is ‘competing’ for attention with reporting on core issues
in the agendas of decision makers such as information necessary to take
monetary policy decisions. That is why risk reporting should be thorough
but focused. While all relevant information should be available upon
request, regular reports should include the core information needed to have
an accurate picture of risks. They should emphasize changes from previous
reports and detect trends for the future. They should avoid overburdening
the readers with unnecessary numbers and charts and instead enable them
to draw clear conclusions for future action. The best reports are in the end
those that result in frequent feedback from their readers.
In most central banks, a number of committees have been created that
allow that more detailed reporting and discussion of the risks in the central
bank is considered by all relevant stakeholders before the core information
is forwarded to the top management. Such are, for example, the Asset and
Liabilities Committee, that examines how assets and liabilities of the bank
develop and impact on its ﬁnancial situation, the Investment Committee
that formulates all major investment decisions and the Risk Committee that
prepares the risk management framework for the bank.4
External transparency reinforces sound central bank governance. There-
fore, ideally, central bank ﬁnancial reports and other publications should
be as transparent as possible regarding the bank’s aggregate and lower-level
risk exposures.
First, and maybe most importantly, informing the public and other
stakeholders about the risks that the central bank incurs when fulﬁlling its
4 Some central banks, like the ECB, may have specialized committees by type of risk, for example a Credit Risk
Committee or an Operational Risk Committee.
452
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 481 ---
policy tasks, such as holding foreign exchange reserves, seems essential to
prevent reputation damages in case large losses actually materialize. If a
central bank is not transparent about the risks it takes, critics can argue
ex post in case of large losses that the risk taking was irresponsible and that
the losses document the incompetence of the central bank. If in contrast
the risks had been explained and quantiﬁed transparently ex ante, and if it
can be documented that it was market movements (or credit events) that
explain the losses, then such ex post criticism is much less convincing. Also
the publication of risk ﬁgures ex ante obliges a central bank to ponder
carefully about a thorough justiﬁcation for taking these risks, and not only
once a considerable loss has occurred.
Second, it could be argued that transparency is a value per se for any
public institution. In particular central banks are not subject to market
pressures and have been entrusted with independence and a particularly
valuable franchise (to issue banknotes). It seems therefore natural to ask
from them to adhere to the highest standards of transparency, unless there
are convincing concrete reasons for exceptions.
Finally, the guidelines provided in the Third Pillar of Basel II, part 4,
section II, (see BCBS 2006b), suggest that all internationally active banks
should, as a part of their reporting, disclose VaR ﬁgures. Even though the
central banks are not legally obliged to follow the guidelines set up in Basel II,
it would be odd not to follow what is considered best practice for all major
international banks. In cases where information is of obvious interest to the
public, the central bank should only allow itself to diverge from best practice
when strong arguments speak against this.
However, given the power to conduct monetary policy and to support
ﬁnancial stability, central banks are closely watched by ﬁnancial market
participants. Actions undertaken by central banks may easily be inter-
preted as a signal, even if it was not intended to be one. Thus, central
banks must be careful to ensure that their signals are clear, and that
actions not intended to convey a signal are not so interpreted. These
considerations often prevent central banks from being more transparent
about their market operations and the level of risks entailed in them. They
may think that disclosing a change in the level of FX risks as result of a
currency reallocation may mislead markets to believe that it was based on
privileged information that the central bank had or even that it consti-
tuted a form of FX intervention. A difference in the duration of some
portfolios may similarly send the wrong signal about future movements in
interest rates.
453
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 482 ---
Most of these risks can be mitigated by providing for a sufﬁcient lag
between the time of disclosure and the time of the actual occurrence of any
changes. In most cases, risk-related information can be provided in the
annual report of the central bank which is usually published well into the
next year. This way, the information content that could potentially affect
markets would have already dissipated while the information content for
the general public retains its value.
4.4 Adequate resources
Investing in risk management does not come cheap. This is the lesson
learned from the private ﬁnancial institutions that have adopted Basel II
guidelines for the management of risk while trying to cope with the ever-
more-complex market landscape and innovations in risk transfer mechan-
isms. In proportion, central banks have followed suit. Not long ago, the
need to acquire and maintain resources for risk management in a central
bank was not an obvious fact and such tasks were allocated to staff in
various business areas (foreign reserves management, monetary policy
implementation, and organization).
General organization principles in the ﬁrm (see Brickley et al. 2007)
indicate that the key investment to be made is that in human resources.
Independence of the risk management function would be meaningless if this
function could not attract and maintain high quality staff. It is therefore
important that risk management staff are compensated at par with ‘risk
takers’ in the institution and have equal career prospects. However, main-
taining highly qualiﬁed staff in the central bank remains a challenge as such
professionals will be generally better compensated in the private sector.
Given the quantitative nature of the work, risk management groups tend
to attract more quantitatively trained staff, often with degrees in science and
engineering. While the same type of skills is also useful in risk management
of the central bank, it is also important to maintain in the group a number
of economists and ﬁnancial economists that would provide the link to the
core business of the central bank. If, as argued in Section 2, risk manage-
ment is most important in relation to the central bank speciﬁc operations
with a policy goal, it becomes all the more important that staff has a good
understanding of these goals.
The adequate function of risk management also depends on adequate
systems. Chapter 4 discussed in detail the dilemma of ‘build or buy’ for IT
systems. Given the rather constrained type of operations and range of
454
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 483 ---
instruments in central bank operations, full-scale off-the-shelf systems are
rarely adequate for the risk management function of a central bank. Fully
in-house developed systems may be better suited to the needs of the
institution but require a high degree of effort in maintaining them. Central
banks are bureaucratic institutions par excellence and selecting, acquir-
ing and implementing new systems takes time and effort. Whether build-
ing or buying, risk management staff needs adequate knowledge in IT in
order to sustain a minimum amount of independence in running its vital
systems.
4.5 Responsibilities of the risk management division
Given a set amount of resources, which are typically restricted in a public
institution, priorities have to be set as to which types of functions and tasks
in the central bank should fall into the scope of a dedicated risk manage-
ment function. In most cases the risk management responsibilities in central
banks (and in fact also in private ﬁnancial institutions) have been built
around the middle-ofﬁce functions. These include the tasks of developing and
implementing a framework of risk controls for all types of ﬁnancial risks,
monitoring the observation of such controls by risk takers and reporting to
top management. In addition they include the measurement and attribution
of performance which is in turn based on the ability to accurately valuate
positions. Such functions are in the heart of the risk manager’s responsi-
bility and are the main reason why risk management should enjoy a sufﬁ-
cient degree of independence in its reporting lines.
One way to look at the risk control tasks is to describe them as ‘ex post’
tasks. They are centred around actions from the side of the risk manager
(e.g. measurement of risks, measurement of return and performance,
valuation, reporting on limit breaches) that take place after actual risks are
taken. Of course they include also the design and frequent review of the risk
control framework, for example the setting of the market, liquidity and
credit risk limits as well as the responsibility to maintain the necessary
systems to perform such tasks.
The next step in extending the responsibilities of risk management has
been its involvement in market operations ‘ex ante’, i.e. before risks are
actually taken. This is often achieved by entrusting risk managers with the
preparation of the strategic level of decisions in the investment process and/or
the asset and liability management of the institution’s balance sheet. This of
course does not change the fact that all related decisions on such important
455
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 484 ---
issues should be taken by top management which is in a position to consider
both the risk and the return dimensions. There are several reasons for this
extension of the risk management role. First, considerable synergies exist
with the risk control function. Strategic asset allocation and asset and
liability management require a set of technical skills similar to those needed
for the risk control tasks of performance measurement and attribution and
asset valuation. Therefore, entrusting the strategic asset allocation to the
same team that performs the risk control tasks would save valuable resources
for the institution. Second, performance measurement and attribution are,
by deﬁnition, based on a comparison of the results achieved by portfolio
managers to a benchmark. Such a benchmark should then be selected by a
team that enjoys adequate organizational independence from the portfolio
managers. For the reasons described earlier, the risk management team,
which performs the risk control tasks, is typically such a group and is
therefore well placed for setting benchmarks. Finally, in institutions like
central banks and other public investors, the role of active portfolio man-
agement is typically limited due to the lack of incentives for extensive risk
taking and the overall risk averseness of top management. Therefore, the
fundamental strategic decisions on asset and liability management mirror
the risk–return preferences of the institution and essentially fully determine
the return to be achieved. Risk managers are best placed to advise top
management on these fundamental investment decisions.
Monetary policy operations, i.e. market operations that do not have an
investment character and where securing return is not even a goal of the
institution, are a unique feature of central banks. Already in Section 2 it
was pointed out that the risk management of such operations is particularly
important for the bank. Under normal market conditions, there is no
incentive for the central bank to take additional risks on its balance sheet in
order to accomplish its policy goals. Therefore central banks tend to min-
imize ﬁnancial risks in such operations. Lending to the banking sector, for
example, is mostly done through fully collateralized operations. Further-
more, assets accepted as collateral have to satisfy criteria and be submitted
to risk control measures that are designed to minimize credit, market and
liquidity risk. Designing the collateral policy of the central bank requires
therefore the full range of risk management skills used also in the middle-
ofﬁce function of investment operations. Furthermore, useful transfer of
knowledge takes place between risk management tasks in policy and
investment operations as in both cases knowledge of the relevant markets
456
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 485 ---
and instruments is paramount. Against this background, it is not surprising
that many central banks have included the risk management of policy
operations in the scope of the central bank’s risk management function.
More recently, central banks have also looked more carefully and began
dedicating resources to operational risks. While there are obvious synergies
between the management of ﬁnancial and operational risks in an insti-
tution, best exempliﬁed in the global treatment of both kinds of these risks
in Basel II, the organizational merging of the management of operational
risk with that of ﬁnancial risk has not been always the choice of central
banks. Central banks face operational risks in the full range of their tasks
and not only in the area of market operations where ﬁnancial risks are
prevalent. Furthermore, reputational issues are core concerns of operational
risk management in central banks despite the fact that reputational risk is
exempted from the Basel II deﬁnition of operational risk. Finally, oper-
ational risk management beneﬁts the most from a decentralized approach
where experts that ‘know the business’ are best placed to assess the severity
of their risks and a central risk management unit is best placed to coordinate
and report on such risks (see Chapter 13 for more details).
4.6 Risk management culture
The discussion over risk management in ﬁnancial institutions (but also
non-ﬁnancial ﬁrms) in the last years has progressively moved from pro-
cesses and tools to risk awareness and institution-wide culture. It has been
widely accepted that managing risks is a responsibility affecting all areas
of an institution and requires the cooperation of all staff. This is not in
contradiction to the fact that dedicated teams of specialists may have well-
deﬁned functions within the area of risk management such as a middle-
ofﬁce function or a coordination of operational risk management.
Risk culture in central banks has traditionally been characterized by three
aspects. First, reputational consequences of materialized risks are ceteris
paribus considered more important and attract considerably more attention
from top management than ﬁnancial impact. This is a consequence of the
importance that a central bank places on its credibility as a prerequisite in
performing its core tasks of monetary policy and preserving ﬁnancial
stability. While ﬁnancial losses, if considerable, will be a concern for top
management, the concern will most probably focus on the reputational
impact of such losses in the markets and the general public. Such focus on
457
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 486 ---
reputation profoundly shapes the investment process in the central bank
and determines the way it conducts policy operations.
Second, central banks are generally risk averse, at least when operating
under normal market conditions. Risk averseness in ﬁrms is usually
attributed in the literature to agency–principal conﬂicts and the related
compensation schemes for executives and staff (see for example Jensen and
Meckling 1976; Jensen and Murphy 1990; and, for a behavioural ﬁnance
approach, Shefrin 2007). In central banks, risk averseness is exacerbated by
special considerations. Until recently, a culture of zero-risk tolerance was
part of the tradition of central bank operations. In operational risk man-
agement, this could result in suppressing reporting on operational risk
incidents and thus underestimating their potential impact. In ﬁnancial risk
management this risk averseness has been incorporated in utility functions
that place particular weight on no-loss constraints. A broader familiarity of
central bankers with risk management concepts and techniques has changed
the zero-risk-tolerance culture to one of institution-wide risk awareness and
risk management responsibility. Developments in ﬁnancial markets and the
need for many central banks to manage considerable sizes of public funds
have also brought again the risk–return considerations to the fore of the
discussions.
Third, central banks have been always aware that while risk management
considerations must be known and accounted for when decisions are made,
the importance of ﬁnancial stability may transcend the standard manage-
ment of ﬁnancial risks. In practice, this tension between policy actions and
risk management is more likely to exist during a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial crisis.
This is perhaps one of the more unique concerns of central banks, given its
policy goals and responsibilities. The policy objective to promote systemic
ﬁnancial stability takes precedence over, e.g. the setting of risk limits, and
may lead to accepting ﬁnancial losses which risk control measures would
normally seek to minimize. Nevertheless, the potential of a policy decision
to loosen certain risk-diminishing practices in favour of promoting systemic
stability does not obviate the necessity of being able to effectively monitor,
measure and report the risks to which a central bank is exposed. In such
situations it is particularly important that top management has accurate
and up-to-date information on the risk position of the central bank, and the
risk implications of all contemplated policy decisions. In fact, it is in such
situations that risk managers can play an important advisory role in recom-
mending the best ways in which to support the ﬁnancial system while
containing the resulting risks to the central bank.
458
Tabakis, E.

--- Página 487 ---
5. Conclusions
In Chapter 1 of this book it was highlighted that while the central bank can
be seen in many respects as just another ﬁnancial investor, there are also
characteristics of that central bank investor that distinguish it from coun-
terparts in the private sector. In this chapter the debate on the similarities
and differences between central banks and other ﬁnancial institutions was
used to discuss the impact of the idiosyncrasies of the central bank on
governance principles in relation to the risk management function, but also
to draw practical conclusions on how to organize such a function.
Despite the various speciﬁcities of central banks that stem out of their
policy orientation and their privilege to issue legal tender, the core gov-
ernance principles relating to the function of risk management are not
substantially different from the private sector. On the contrary, Section 2
argued that it is particularly in those operations which are speciﬁc to central
banks, i.e. those that have a policy goal, where a strong risk management
framework is necessary. In fact the conclusion could be that the central bank
should follow best practices in risk management for ﬁnancial institutions
as the default rule and deviate for them only if important and well-
documented policy reasons exist for such a deviation.
Finally, it has been argued that what remains an important element of the
risk management function of the central bank is the existence and further
fostering of an adequate risk management culture in the institution. Such
a culture that steers away from both extreme risk averseness, traditionally
associated with central banks, and a lack of the necessary risk awareness is
imperative for the appropriate functioning of the central bank both under
normal circumstances and during a ﬁnancial crisis.
459
Organizational issues in the risk management function

--- Página 488 ---
13
Operational risk management
in central banks
Jean-Charles Sevet
1. Introduction
As shown in the previous chapters of this book, ﬁnancial risk management
in central banking has come a long way. Managing non-ﬁnancial risks is to a
large extent the new frontier.
Central banks face a very wide array of non-ﬁnancial risks. A few of them,
in particular those related to reputation, have actually an importance which
is difﬁcult to oversee or overstate. Still, while very signiﬁcant effort and
progress has been made during the past twenty years to provide tangible
solutions for the most pressing and visible concerns related to information
security, physical security or business continuity, the broader topic of
operational risk management (ORM) has stayed in a relative stage of infancy.
In recent times, however, unprecedented forces have spurred a new wave of
ORM initiatives. In an era where they encourage commercial banks to
improve risk management in general and ORM in particular, central banks
are more than ever committed to enhance their own competency and
demonstrate that they fully practice what they preach. Faced with reinforced
scrutiny on the use of public money, they strive to overcome their tradi-
tional bias towards risk aversion and further embrace values of effectiveness
and efﬁciency through formal ORM frameworks and explicit risk tolerance
policies. Last but not least, in a complex and uncertain new business envi-
ronment featuring integrated ﬁnancial markets and infrastructures, digital
convergence and development of web-centric applications, and more gen-
erally emerging threats of the era of globalization (e.g. international ter-
rorism, criminality or pandemic issues), central banks are resolutely starting
to take a fresh and comprehensive look at the key non-ﬁnancial risks which
may compromise their ultimate objectives.
Thanks to the work of the International Operational Risk Working
Group (IORWG), in particular, the state of play of ORM in Central Banking
460

--- Página 489 ---
can be apprehended through a substantial and representative information
base. The IORWG (www.iorwg.org) was initiated by the Central Bank of
Spain in 2005 to promote exchange of ORM best practices in central
banking. As from mid 2008, this forum includes thirty-two central banks,
reserve banks and/or monetary supervisory authorities from thirty nations
in all ﬁve continents. Data and insights gained during the two past con-
ferences inter alia helped delineate key trends mentioned in this chapter (see
2006 conference of the IORWG in Madrid and of the 2007 conference in
Philadelphia). Overall, existing frameworks in place in central banks refer to
a variety of sources of knowledge and experience. The attached reference list
compiles the most frequently used ones.
The topic of ORM has been covered in recent years by a few authoritative
textbooks – see Cruz (2002) or Marshall (2001) – which provide a set of
useful references regarding critical aspects of modern ORM. Yet, the various
techniques discussed in these and similar books and articles (e.g. database
modelling; stochastic modelling through severity models; extreme value
theory, frequency models or operational value at risk; non-linear models
and Bayesian techniques; hedging techniques etc.) are not further discussed
in the present chapter. More than the impossibility to provide a meaningful
summary of quantitative techniques, the main reason for leaving textbook
ORM aside here is that central banks have only very marginally followed
this path and opted to address their speciﬁc needs essentially through the
use of qualitative techniques (see rationale in Section 2).
Regarding the latter, the attached list of reference mentions frequently
used ‘risk management standards’ which have been considered and/or
adopted by central banks’ various departments and were developed by
professions as diverse as experts of insurance management (Association of
Insurance and Risk Managers 2002), internal audit (Institute of Internal
Auditors 2004), information system security (International Organization
for Standardization 2002 and 2005; Information Security Forum 2000),
physical security (US Department of Homeland Security 2003), project
management (Project Management Institute 2004), procurement and out-
sourcing (Ofﬁce of Government Commerce 1999), business continuity
(British Standard Institutions 2006; Business Continuity Institute 2007),
speciﬁc business lines (Financial Markets Association 2007), or public sector
bodies (International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions 2004;
Standards Australia 2004). In many central banks, COSO (2004), an inte-
grated framework developed in the world of audit and internal control by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission,
461
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 490 ---
is frequently referred to, in an attempt to glue together various elements
related to operational risks and related controls. Due to their signiﬁcance
for ﬁnancial institutions, ORM standards deﬁned by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision (BCBS 1998a; 1998b; 2001a; 2002; 2003) in the
wider context of Basel II have been considered by most central banks for
aspects of immediate relevance (e.g. taxonomy of operational risks events,
sound practice of governance). In the US, regulatory requirements of the
Sarbanes–Oxley act also served as a catalyst to propagate certain techniques
pertaining to risk and control self-assessment.
Over the last three to ﬁve years, ﬁnally, active benchmarking initiatives
within the central banking community have provided the most relevant
source of knowledge and experience on ORM matters. At a global level, on
top of the aforementioned work of the IORWG, an internal study group
organized by the Bank for International Settlement produced a report on
this topic (‘Risk Management in central banks’, Bank for International
Settlements 09/2007). In the context of the US Federal Reserve System, the
Federal Reserve of Philadelphia assumes a coordination role for all reserve
banks. And at the level of the Eurosystem of central banks, a dedicated
working group is expected to complete the development of a common
ORM framework by the end of 2008.
Reﬂecting on this experience, this chapter touches upon ten generic
aspects of operational risk management in central banks and illustrates
them by presenting the respective solutions currently implemented at the
European Central Bank. The ECB launched an ORM programme in
November 2005 with a view to:
 harmonize and integrate the various risk management frameworks which
had been previously developed in a decentralized mode across the various
business areas and risk categories of the ECB during its founding years;
 introduce best practice elements of ORM, in consideration of the speciﬁc
requirements of a not-for-proﬁt organization;
 lay the foundation for a harmonized ORM framework for Eurosystem
central banks, which a dedicated working group is expected to ﬁnalise by
the end of 2008.
The framework developed by the ECB in 2006 and early 2007 has greatly
beneﬁted from all previously mentioned sources of knowledge and experi-
ence, as well as from an evaluation of ﬁfteen ORM software solutions. Roll-
out started in September 2007.
Section 2 of this chapter reﬂects the wide consensus of the central
banking community regarding the fundamental speciﬁcity of ORM for the
462
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 491 ---
industry. The remaining sections, while discussing standard concepts and
practices, also highlight some speciﬁc aspects of the new ECB framework
and, doing so, make a plea for revisiting a few elements of conventional
ORM in Central Banking.
2. Central bank speciﬁc ORM challenges
ORM is a discipline that continuously and systematically identiﬁes, assesses
and treats operational events that may impact the key objectives of an insti-
tution. Challenges to develop and implement ORM within central banks are
both generic and highly speciﬁc.
For central bankers, as for any other organization, ORM poses a formi-
dable methodological challenge: ﬁnancial risk management disciplines con-
sider a small number of fairly homogeneous categories of risk-generating
events (e.g. default of credit counterparties, ﬂuctuation of interest or currency
rates) and can accordingly, at least theoretically, build statistical models to
slice and dice relatively large populations of events and determine critical
underlying risk drivers.
By contrast, events related to operational risks are by nature much more
complex and heterogeneous. As the types of operational risk events are of
a theoretically inﬁnite number, organizations of all size always must cope
with inextricable issues of paucity of historical data to validate ORM analyses.
Everywhere, ORM practitioners must engage in technically complex and
politically sensitive efforts of information pooling and sharing with external
partners to complement their own databases. And everywhere, ad hoc tweaks
in data sets and risk assessment models are required, in particular to cover
very rare ‘fat-tail’ events where no historical information at all is available.
While central bankers naturally share these generic issues with their
colleagues from the private sector, they must additionally, like other not-
for-proﬁt institutions, take into account two very speciﬁc aspects: in ORM
matters, like for most other management disciplines, both their ultimate
objective and their key values and incentives are of a fundamentally dif-
ferent nature than those of private sector companies.
2.1 Non-ﬁnancial objectives
Basics sometime matter: as central banks’ ultimate objectives are fundamen-
tally different from private sector companies, so are the speciﬁc objectives
463
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 492 ---
of ORM. Private companies’ raison d’eˆtre is to create value to their share-
holders. This orientation fully justiﬁes that all operational events, even those
linked to intangible aspects like reputation or service quality, should
ultimately be captured in a ﬁnancial ‘value at risk’. In simple terms, private
sector ORM can and must in essence be based on a quantitative approach.
By contrast, central banks’ critical goals and assets are of a non-ﬁnancial
nature and relate to the potential non-achievement of speciﬁc legal and/or
statutory obligations – in the case of the ECB, for instance, the latter are
deﬁned in the Maastricht treaty and the ESCB Statute. Because the most
severe impacts of their operational risk events cannot be quantiﬁed in
monetary terms, central banks have a natural and fully legitimate inclina-
tion to emphasize qualitative approaches. Admittedly, quantitative risk
modelling still can be applied to their few transaction-intensive processes to
measure operational losses. Certainly, sound scientiﬁc reasoning, starting
by validating human judgement by facts and evidence, must always be
guaranteed. Yet, at the end of the day, central banking risks are primarily of
a qualitative nature and can make only marginal use of more sophisticated
quantitative techniques.
2.2 Not-for-proﬁt values and incentives
The second key difference in implementing ORM in central banks as opposed
to within private sector companies relates to base values and incentives
systems. New requirements like Basel II which encourage private sector
banks to invest in ORM frameworks and systems are sometimes perceived
as discretionary and exogenous regulatory pressures. Yet, more fundamen-
tally, a very powerful economical rationale is at play: large and/or sophisti-
cated banks do not commit to the costly application for an Advanced
Management Approach (AMA) accreditation based on sheer considerations
of prestige. By managing their operational risks in a more effective manner,
commercial bank managers can free up increasingly scarce economic capital,
improve the risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC) of a given business
line, which will more or less directly and immediately translate into a
monetary reward.
Yet the value and incentive systems of central bankers are of a totally
different nature: no market discipline exists, which can aggressively coun-
terbalance natural concerns of risk avoidance by criteria of cost perform-
ance. And public ofﬁcer employment schemes paired with demographic
constraints considerably limit opportunities to reward successful managers
464
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 493 ---
or staff and to punish poor performers. Addressing the hidden and yet
decisive change management question (‘ORM? – What is in it for me?’), no
simple carrot-and-stick answer is available. More than anywhere else,
patience and long-term commitment are of the essence. ORM beneﬁts in
central banks are more collective (‘Develop a shared view of our key risks’) than
individual (‘Win over the budget on project x’); more visionary (‘Preserve and
enhance our reputation as a well respected institution employing highly trustful
and qualiﬁed professionals’) than materialist (‘Secure a 25 per cent bonus’); and
also more protective (e.g. ‘Rather proactively disclose incidents than be criti-
cized in a negative audit report’) than offensive (‘Reducing risks in service line x
will free up resources for opportunities in service line y’).
3. Deﬁnition of operational risk
In the papers of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, operational
risk is deﬁned as ‘the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes, people and systems or from external events’. However, the afore-
mentioned speciﬁcities in central banking typically call for a wider deﬁnition
and scoping of operational risk.
At the ECB, for instance, the latter is deﬁned as ‘the risk of negative
business, reputational or ﬁnancial impact for the bank which derives from
speciﬁc risk events due to or facilitated by root causes pertaining to go-
vernance, people, processes, infrastructure, information systems, legal,
communication and changes in the external environment’. In comparison
to the Basel II deﬁnition, this formulation lays the emphasis on ultimate
non-ﬁnancial impacts, stresses the importance of explicitly managing risk-
generating events, and extends the scope of functional causes of risks to
include governance and legal matters.
Yet what is risk? The aforementioned risk management ‘standards’ fre-
quently refer to intuitive deﬁnitions for objectives of simplicity. As typical
examples, the Australia/New Zealand standard AS/NZS 4360:2005 deﬁnes
risk as ‘any threat of an action or event to our industry or activities that has
the potential to threaten the achievement of . . . objectives’ and the widely
used COSO framework understands this notion as ‘the possibility that an
event will occur and adversely affect the achievement of objectives’. On closer
examination, deﬁnitions of that kind represent a gross oversimpliﬁcation of
the notion of risk. As notably shown by a series of provocative articles by
Samad-Khan (2005; 2006a; 2006b), they generate a few misconceptions which
465
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 494 ---
are still at the core of traditional ORM frameworks. In order to reﬂect a few
critical concepts and parameters used in statistical theory, the notion of risk
should be more precisely deﬁned – for instance as ‘the area of uncertainty
surrounding the expected negative outcome or impact of a type of event, between
normal business conditions and a worst-case scenario assuming a certain level
of conﬁdence’. By design, risk is a function of the frequency distribution of a
type of event as well as of the related impact distribution.
Of course, such cryptic jargon is inappropriate when communicating to
pressured managers or staff. In essence, however, four simple and practical
messages must be explained over time.
3.1 Risk as a distribution
The term ‘risk’ refers to notions of distribution – i.e. it does not mean the
product of the likelihood and the impact of one single event. In audit and
project departments, very useful instruments have been developed to assess
the ‘probability-weighted cost’ of single events or decisions and to manage
log books of potential speciﬁcally identiﬁed incidents. As the term ‘risk’ is
frequently used in common language to qualify these tools (e.g. assessing
the ‘risks’ of investing in system x, reviewing the list of ‘risks’ of project y),
managers have very naturally learnt to think of this notion as of a unique
combination of likelihood and monetary (or non-monetary) impact. Using
day-to-day examples, it is essential to illustrate that operational risks apply-
ing to recurring processes actually reﬂect types of events, which may impact
very differently the institution over time.
3.2 Normal business conditions vs. worst-case scenarios
As paucity of historical data always impairs (and generally prohibits) proper
modelling of the frequency distribution of risk-generating events for most
central banking activities, ORM must consider at least two fundamentally
different cases:
 Negative business outcomes in normal business conditions, i.e. considering
the regular conditions and environment that an institution faces when
executing its daily tasks. The frequency of risk-generating events under
normal business conditions can be observed, and their ﬁnancial impact at
least can be measured. For good reasons, insurers and credit institutions
explicitly factor in and manage such ‘average losses’ as the ‘cost of doing
business’ requiring a recurrent ‘risk premium’ for their customers.
466
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 495 ---
 Negative outcomes under a worst-case scenario, i.e. stating very unlikely
yet plausible assumptions on possible risk events, underlying root causes
and ultimate risk impacts for the institution. Due to the absence of
relevant internal historical data, some central banks have in the past
tended to insufﬁciently reﬂect on such worst-case scenarios, leaving
them potentially oblivious and vulnerable to some of their most severe
risks. Yet, if the ‘likelihood’ of worst-case scenarios cannot be assessed,
their plausibility can be fairly well documented based on experts and
managers’ judgements: very adverse external events which have his-
torically happened in other countries and/or industries give at least
partially relevant hints about potential catastrophic scenarios, and the
severity of their impact can be ascertained in a fairly straightforward
manner with due respect to the speciﬁc control environment of the
institution.
3.3 Danger of the classical likelihood/impact matrix
As a consequence of the above, conventional representations of operational
risks must be adapted. Nowadays, most central banks continue to use a
‘likelihood–impact’ matrix to visualize their operational risks. Yet, using
such a matrix to report on heterogeneous operational risk events only
produces ‘apples and pears’ comparisons: As an example, a ‘worst-case’
event like 11 September, assessed as ‘very unlikely’ and ‘very severe’ will by
design appear in the yellow zone of the matrix and therefore be misleadingly
presented as less of a concern than a current, ‘very likely’ and ‘severe’ event
like a pending legal issue appearing in the red zone. As illustrated in Section
6, a revised version of the matrix is required to allow management to more
realistically apprehend red-zone risks, be it under normal business condi-
tions or under worst-case scenarios.
3.4 Inherent risk vs. worst-case scenario
Ultimately, the only things that matter in ORM are actual and recurrent
incidents as well as plausible worst-case risk scenarios – and how both
categories are being mitigated. By contrast, the frequently used notion of
‘inherent risk’ should arguably be abandoned and replaced by formal worst-
case scenario analysis.
‘Inherent’ risks are typically deﬁned in traditional ORM frameworks
as ‘raw’ risks which would exist irrespective of (or before) any control.
467
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 496 ---
Experience however demonstrates that using the notion of inherent risks
presents three limitations:
 First, managers requested to reﬂect on inherent risk intuitively realize
that assessing the likelihood and impact of a risk event in a totally
hypothetical scenario constitutes a fairly improbable task.
 Soon, they also note that assessing fully theoretical risks does not really
create valuable information for decision making and action. For existing
processes, which represent the vast majority of cases, some controls (even
minimal ones) are already in place and should not be ignored. And even
for totally new project or initiatives, where control should be deﬁned
from scratch, reﬂecting on totally theoretical risks (which by deﬁnition
would create the most extreme damage) does not help, and a more
relevant approach is to determine a plausible worst-case scenario.
 At the end of the day, the key reason to abandon the concept of ‘inherent
risk’ is that the idea of ‘risks without any control’ is to a large extent a
ﬁction. The following riddle helps to realize this: What is the risk of gold
bars being stolen in a bank’s safe left permanently open without any guard
or security arrangement? Actually, if such would ever be the case, our
strangely absent-minded bank would face no risk but rather an absolute
certainty: one day or another, and probably sooner than later, somebody
would steal that gold.
4. ORM as overarching framework
When setting out to introduce their relatively new discipline, risk managers
typically face the daunting challenge of explaining in simple terms why and
how ORM, far from replacing or competing with approaches traditionally
used for speciﬁc categories of risks and controls, actually creates unique
value.
Indeed, in all central banks, a large number of policies, procedures and
instruments establish a general framework for governance, compliance and
internal control, and speciﬁcally organize the management of the conﬁ-
dentiality, integrity and availability of information, of the physical security
of people and premises, and of the continuity of critical business processes.
Over time, central banks have increasingly come to recognize that this
initial approach to various categories of operational risk events has been
exceedingly piecemeal. In essence, ORM provides the overarching frame-
work which has been historically missing in most institutions and ﬁnally
468
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 497 ---
makes it possible to manage operational risks in a consistent and integrated
manner.
What is an ORM ‘framework’? Though no academic deﬁnition exists, it is
widely used and understood by central banks as the verbal and visual
representation of the interlinked components which are needed to identify,
assess, mitigate and monitor their operational risks. One way of summar-
izing and charting ORM framework components is to use popular analytical
grids like McKinsey’s 7S model (Strategy, Structure, Systems, Skills, Staff,
Style and Shared values).
In the ECB, the ORM framework has been deﬁned around seven more
speciﬁc contents. Three of them focus on the required umbrella metho-
dology for risk and control issues. They are:
 a common language – the operational risk taxonomy (see Section 5);
 a generic risk management lifecycle (see Section 6);
 explicit strategic orientations stated in the operational risk tolerance of
the Executive Board (see Section 7).
The remaining four other components of the ORM framework of the ECB
consist of:
 one yearly top-down ORM exercise providing the big picture of risks at
the level of the macro-processes of the bank (see Section 8);
 a ﬁve-year programme of bottom-up ORM exercises deﬁning speciﬁc
action plans at the level of each of its individual processes (see Section 9);
 a governance model fostering convergence and integration of all vertical
and horizontal disciplines and activities related to operational risks and
controls (see Section 10);
 new developments in the area of ORM reporting and key risk indicators
(see Section 11).
5. Taxonomy of operational risk
From a technical perspective, central banks all complement their verbal
deﬁnition of risk with a taxonomy, i.e. a systematic way of categorizing
various risk items. An internal survey on ORM practice within Eurosystem
central banks (see report to the Organizational Working Group, June 2007)
conﬁrmed previous ﬁndings of a IORWG study (see acts of the 2006 con-
ference of the IORWG in Madrid): most institutions have opted to adapt to
their own needs the taxonomy of risk events proposed in the Basel II papers.
However a few central banks, including the ECB, found it useful to develop
469
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 498 ---
a more comprehensive taxonomy to describe the full ‘causality chain’ of
operational risks, including a categorization of their root causes, of observable
risk events, of controls or other risk treatment measures and of ultimate risk
impact (see Figure 13.1).
The three objectives of this taxonomy are to provide a clear and common
language for all risk, control and security stakeholders of the ECB, to support
Taxonomy
of
Operational Risk 
3.
Root causes
of risk
• Enables risk experts 
to identify enabling 
factors of risk events 
(e.g., deficiencies in 
control)
• Supports analysis by 
line managers of 
observable or 
foreseeable events / 
incidents which may 
expose the bank to a 
risk
2.
Risk  
events
Errors
Frauds 
& misc. 
malicious
acts
Incidents, 
accidents,
disasters
Adverse 
changes in
external
environment
Attacks
• Allows top 
management to 
review and manage 
risk based on 
intuitive categories 
of ultimate impact for 
the bank
Business objectives
Reputation
Financial
1.
Risk
impacts
4. 
Risk
mitigation
measures
• Enables risk experts 
to identify most 
effective & efficient 
measures to prevent
root causes, predict
risk events or correct
impact
Corporate
Governance
Communi-
cation
Premises
& physical 
assets
Process-
or project-
specific
Legal &
regulatory
Information
Systems
Intelligence
Management
Human
Resources
Corporate
Governance
Communi-
cation
Premises
& physical 
assets
Process-
or project-
specific
Legal &
regulatory
Information
Systems
Intelligence
Management
Human
Resources
Figure 13.1
Taxonomy of operational risk.
470
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 499 ---
the quality of risk analyses via robust, mutually exclusive and commonly
exhaustive categorizations, and to allow for consistency in risk reporting.
Mapping the full causality chain also helps overcome frequent misun-
derstandings about the term of ‘risk’: indeed, for reasons of simplicity in
daily communication, the latter is typically (mis)used to express funda-
mentally different notions such as the given root cause of an event (e.g. in
expressions such as ‘legal risk’, ‘HR risk’, ‘information security risk’, ‘political
risk’ etc.), one type of undesirable event which may ultimately generate a
negative impact (e.g. in expressions like ‘risk of error’, ‘risk of fraud’ etc.) or
the nature of such an impact (e.g. in expressions such as ‘business risk’,
‘reputation risk’, ‘ﬁnancial risk’, ‘strategy risk’ etc.). Experience at the ECB
demonstrates that a comprehensive taxonomy of operational risk can remain
simple and user friendly. In practice, it constitutes a modular toolbox used
by all risk stakeholders on a ﬂexible, need-to-know basis. Typically:
 risk impact categories are mostly relevant for management reports, as
they highlight the type of ultimate damage for the bank;
 risk event categories are extremely useful to structure management or expert
discussions regarding the frequency or plausibility of certain risk situations;
 categorizations of root causes and of risk treatment measures are used on
a continuous basis by the relevant business and functional experts, in
order to detect risk situations, monitor leading risk indicators or select
the most effective risk treatments.
Within each of these four categories, a tree structure (simple level one list
of items, further broken down into more detailed level two and three
categories) allows risk stakeholders to select the level of granularity required
for their respective needs.
6. The ORM lifecycle
A second useful element in an ORM framework is a generic representation
of the risk management lifecycle. The aforementioned ‘standards’ on risk
managements use largely identical, yet also partly speciﬁc and partly con-
tradicting concepts, tools or approaches – and summarize them in hete-
rogeneous representations of the activities and outputs of risk management.
To facilitate overall coordination, consistency and transparency, the ECB
has mapped the approach used by all existing risk disciplines to a standard
lifecycle comprising the ﬁve following phases: (1) Risk identiﬁcation;
(2) Risk assessment; (3) Design and planning of risk treatment measures;
471
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 500 ---
(4) Implementation of risk treatment measures and (5) Ongoing risk
monitoring, review, testing and reporting.
At the ECB, the three initial phases of the lifecycle are implemented in
an integrated manner in the context of ORM top-down and bottom-up
exercises and complemented wherever required by specialized risk assess-
ments (e.g. analysis of the business criticality of speciﬁc physical or intan-
gible assets; speciﬁcation of related new or additional security or business
continuity requirements).
The last two phases of the lifecycle are conducted under the primary
responsibility of business areas. The ﬁnal phase, in particular, continues to
require signiﬁcant contribution from the various control specialists of the
bank. For all of them, it includes tasks as diverse as continuously checking
the status of the bank’s key risks; verifying that the latter remain in line with
the bank’s risk tolerance; ensuring that required corrective action plans
are implemented and are progressing according to agreed schedules; scan-
ning the business environment to detect emerging new risks and regularly
aggregating the information on risks and mitigation responses in coordi-
nation with the central ORM team.
In order to encourage business areas to fully disclose incidents or near-
losses, candidly discuss emerging threats and deﬁne relevant measures,
internal auditors do not participate in self-assessments workshops, nor are
they associated in their actual implementation or in the preparation of risk
reports. Still, internal audit is by principle entitled to full access to the
various outputs of ORM processes – be they in the form of collected
information on risk events, results of self-assessments, action plans and/or
ﬁnal reports. Such material gathered in a more standardized and homo-
geneous manner than in the past provides auditors with invaluable insights
to plan, reprioritize, execute and monitor risk-based audit programmes,
as required by international standards.
7. Operational risk tolerance policy
The third and most critical element of an umbrella ORM methodology is a
formal, ex ante deﬁnition of the bank’s operational risk tolerance – which
can be deﬁned as ‘the amount or level of operational risk that a central bank
is prepared to accept, tolerate or be exposed to at any point in time’. With
a view to overcome limitations of their traditional approach in this area,
centrals banks have started to design more formalized instruments.
472
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 501 ---
As presented in earlier chapters of this book, a central bank’s tolerance
for ﬁnancial risk is generally deﬁned and approved at the highest level of
the organization. In the case of the ECB, this takes place annually at the level
of Governing Council in the case of foreign reserve assets, and at the level
of the Executive Board of the ECB for the management of the bank’s own
funds. Yet, as discussed above, central banks by design cannot determine
similar quantitative thresholds for their operational risks, as the latter are
primarily of a non-ﬁnancial nature.
In line with similar practice in other not-for-proﬁt institutions, all central
banks analysed by a working group of the IORWG in 2006 (see acts of the
2006 conference of the IORWG in Madrid) reported that they express their
operational risk tolerance using an indirect approach:
 ex ante, through the deﬁnition of qualitative ‘guiding principles’; and
 ex post, via ad hoc instructions by their Board of Directors or other
relevant committees on ways and means to react to and/or mitigate risks
which had materialized.
The limitations of such an approach are well known by all line managers. At
the end of the day, how can anybody reasonably request or even expect
them to assess the effectiveness of existing controls or to prioritize alter-
native risk treatment measures without deﬁning the target in the ﬁrst place?
A few central banks have started to explore ways of reinforcing ex ante
guidance on operational risks and controls. In the new ORM framework of
the ECB, for instance, the Executive Board formally deﬁnes the bank’s
tolerance for operational risk. The latter consists of a single and fairly
detailed risk impact-grading scale, which is linked to high-level guidelines
regarding priority risk treatment measures in both normal business con-
ditions and worst-case scenarios.
7.1 Foundation: the risk impact-grading scale
A unique ﬁve-level impact-grading scale is used to assess in a consistent
manner the severity of business, reputational and ﬁnancial impact of all
types of risk-generating events of the banks. All three categories of im-
pacts are dependent on speciﬁcally deﬁned drivers or causal factors (see
Figure 13.2).
Most of these causal factors can be expressed according to fairly objective
criteria (e.g. non-respect of critical deadline, impact on balance sheet). The
level of severity within each risk impact category can be consistently assessed
across the bank using a combination of qualitative criteria and quantitative
473
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 502 ---
thresholds. In the speciﬁc case of impact on reputation, exogenous and
subjective elements also play a critical role. As demonstrated in a few much-
publicized cases of reputational risk in recent years, perceptions by public
opinion tend to prevail over facts – and these perceptions tend to put more
emphasis on commonsense and ethical values than on applicable laws and
regulations. Legal risk is not represented as a separate risk impact category,
as litigation cases ultimately bear a reputational and/or a ﬁnancial impact.
Impacts on reputation related to issues of staff security or conﬁdentiality,
availability or integrity of information assets are assessed with consideration
of relevant standards and best practices. Business impacts related to staff
or information issues can be straightforwardly assessed by considering the
most plausible outcomes.
7.2 Implication: risk tolerance guidelines
The operational risk tolerance of the ECB is formalized via a set of ex ante,
explicit and high-level guidelines by the Executive Board. The latter provide
a prioritization scheme for investment in controls or other risk treatment
measures. As shown in Figure 13.3, tolerated levels of risk are expressed
considering both normal business conditions and worst-case scenarios.
The risk tolerance guidelines can be summarized as follows. Risk impacts
of level three (under normal business conditions) or four and ﬁve (in a
Drivers of reputation impact
•Degree of responsibility/influence
of the ECB
•Level and visibility of
incriminated person 
•Geographical scope of
media coverage 
• Nature of media involved
• Duration of media coverage
Drivers of financial impact
• Write off on the balance sheet
of the ECB (incl. existing
insurances)  
• Opportunity cost 
Drivers of business impact
• Affects the market 
• Affects a statutory obligation 
• Has a significant impact in
terms of  
 • Quality (incl. accuracy,
   confidentiality, integrity,
   availability)     
 • Timeliness
 • Continuity
• Whether repetition creates 
cumulative impact
Business
objectives 
Reputation
Financial
assets 
5
Catastrophic
Significant
Low
4
2
1
3
Very low / Negligible
Major
Harm to ECB essential interests
Risk
level
Figure 13.2
Drivers of the risk impact-grading scale of the ECB.
474
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 503 ---
worst-case scenario) require implementing priority measures to reduce to
the maximum feasible or receiving explicit acceptance by the Executive
Board. In order to roughly ascertain the level of severity requiring top
management attention, it should be indicated that the ﬁnancial thresholds
used for deﬁning level four and ﬁve at the ECB are respectively EUR
1 million and EUR 10 million. Potential risk impacts of level two (in normal
business conditions) or three (in a worst-case scenario) require conducting
cost–beneﬁt analyses of additional risk treatment measures. And potential
risk impacts of level one (in normal business conditions) or one and two (in
a worst-case scenario) are considered to be tolerable ‘incidents’. From a
strict ORM perspective, the latter only require adequate monitoring, yet
neither proactive intervention nor reporting. From a broader management
perspective, the effectiveness and efﬁciency of controls related to smaller
incidents may justify ad hoc reviews.
Event frequency
Priority
1
Priority1
Must do
Must do
Priority
2
Priority 2
Not applicable
5
4
2
1
3
Impact level
(Business, reputation and/or financial)
> once/10 years
unlikely yet 
plausible
‘worst case 
scenarios’
1
very 
infrequent
observable risk events
‘under normal business conditions’
2
infrequent
5–10 years
5
very
frequent
every year 
4
frequent
1–2 years
3
moderately
frequent
2–5 years
Figure 13.3
Operational risk tolerance: illustrative principles.
475
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 504 ---
8. Top-down self-assessments
How should central banks start implementing ORM? Nowadays, central
banks generally recognize that priority should be given to top-down exer-
cises due to their objective and scope. The experience of the ECB is pre-
sented to illustrate a possible approach and the related outputs and lessons
learned.
8.1 Objective and scope
As demonstrated by a survey of the IORWG (see acts of the 2007 conference
in Philadelphia), the vast majority central banks have historically opted to
start by a bottom-up approach at the level of individual processes or
organizational entities.
After years of implementation, all concerned institutions conﬁrm the
beneﬁts of analysing risks and controls in a systematic and detailed manner.
However, many of them also stress: (a) the signiﬁcant cost of conducting
bottom-up exercises across all areas; (b) the complexity of aligning and/or
reconciling risk information collected on a piecemeal basis; and ultimately
(c) the danger of losing sight of the wood for the trees. With the beneﬁt of
hindsight, the central bank community nowadays agrees that ORM should
start from the top. In essence, top-down approaches achieve two key
beneﬁts. They:
 provide an initial and well-calibrated ‘big picture’ of the critical events
bearing the highest risks for the achievement of business objectives,
reputation and/or ﬁnancial assets of the institution; and
 help prioritize subsequent more detailed bottom-up exercises on the
most critical processes, functions or organizational entities.
The scope of top-down exercises must facilitate a bird’s-eye view on
operational risks. In the case of the ECB, the top-down exercise is conducted
at the level of the eight core macro-processes (e.g. monetary policy, market
operations etc.) of the bank, of its six enabling functions (e.g. communi-
cation, IS etc.) as well as for very large projects. The top-down exercise
covers all the plausible risk scenarios, be it in a ‘worst case’ or under ‘normal
business conditions’, which may expose the bank to a risk impact of at least
three or more according to the impact-grading scale. From a timing per-
spective, the top-down exercise is to be conducted each year, as an integral
part of the strategy process.
476
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 505 ---
8.2 Approach
At the present juncture, central banks’ experience of top-down assessments
is probably too recent to describe standard practices and instruments.
A notable exception is represented by Bank of Canada, which has accom-
plished pioneer work in the central banking industry on ways and means
of integrating top-down assessments of operational risks with strategic
planning. At the ECB, the top-down exercise is centred around two types of
workshops: vertical workshops held at the level of each of the core or
enabling macro-process of the bank, and horizontal workshops dealing with
risk scenarios related to transversal issues of governance (e.g. communi-
cation, legal, procurement) and security (information security, physical
security, business continuity management).
Deﬁning worst-case operational risk scenarios starts with considering to
which extent individual risk items listed in the risk event taxonomy actually
apply to a macro-process situation (‘What could go wrong?’ ‘Could any of these
events ever happen to us?’). An alternative way to verify whether the universe of
worst-case risks considered is comprehensive, is to ponder whether examples
of consequences listed in the impact-grading scale would be relevant (‘What
would be the worst impact(s) in this area?’) and then ‘reverse-engineer’ the
related worst-case operational risk scenario. In all cases, worst-case scenarios
are developed by considering worst-case risk events that have actually hap-
pened in partly comparable environments (e.g. governments, public agencies,
research centres, faculties, etc.) – thinking of the ECB as a public institution
delivering a set of generic functions (e.g. policy making, research/technical
advisory, compilation of information, communication of political messages).
Based on a mix of primary and secondary research, a database of about 150
relevant worst-case scenarios was compiled by the central ORM team to
support the initial top-down assessment and has been continuously updated
ever since. Worst-case scenarios are ﬁnally tailored to the speciﬁc environment
of the ECB after due consideration of parameters such as the speciﬁc business
objectives of the bank (e.g. not for proﬁt dimension), important features
of its control environment (e.g. historical ‘zero-risk’ culture) and predict-
able changes in the business environment (e.g. transition from Target 1 to
Target 2 platform in the area of payment systems). A standard template is
completed to describe each worst-case scenario in a comprehensive manner.
It provides:
 historical evidence of external catastrophic events which have been
considered to establish the plausibility of the worst-case scenario;
477
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 506 ---
 a summary of all the parameters which substantiate the plausibility of
the worst-case scenario in the particular environment of the ECB – i.e.
speciﬁc assumptions pertaining to root causes, failures of mitigation
measures, other speciﬁc circumstances (e.g. shortage of staff due to
holiday season), and ultimate consequences (e.g. leakage/fraud becoming
public), etc.;
 an assessment by concerned senior managers of the potential business,
reputational and ﬁnancial impact which the ECB might have to face
under the scenario described, including a detailed qualitative justiﬁcation
of this evaluation.
Experts from the central ORM team check consistency of input provided
across all business areas and, if required, suggest slight readjustments of
assessed risk impacts to ensure overall consistency. During the initial assess-
ment, covering the full universe of about eighty worst-case scenarios and
setting the corresponding baseline required a signiﬁcant one-off effort over
a three-month horizon. Fortunately, worst-case scenarios tend to be fairly
stable over the medium term – requiring only limited updating during the
successive yearly top-down exercises. This should come as no surprise:
beyond a few fundamentally new trends in the business and technological
environment, and beyond unpredictable events and hazards in the eco-
nomic and ﬁnancial conjuncture, the base parameters of operational risks
are indeed fairly stable. ‘Why do you keep robbing banks?’, a somewhat
obstinate criminal was once asked. ‘Because it is where the money is’, was the
naı¨ve and profound answer.
8.3 Output and lessons learned
In the approach implemented by the ECB, a ﬁnal report on the top-down
ORM assessment is to be produced by the middle of the year. The latter
includes an updated heat map charting the status of the bank’s key oper-
ational risks, a qualitative summary of the key ﬁndings, and an appendix
including all the compiled worst-case scenario sheets. Expectations regarding
initial top-down exercises must be kept at a realistic level. The experience
of the ECB indeed shows (or conﬁrms) that only very few totally new risk
scenarios emerge from high-level historical analyses, expert brainstorming
and management workshops. At ﬁrst sight, top-down heat map appears to
only document widely shared assumptions regarding the concentration of
key operational risks in certain macro-processes (e.g. market operations) and
horizontal risk categories (e.g. pandemic, massive attack on IS systems). Yet,
478
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 507 ---
very soon, the real beneﬁts of a top-down exercise become much more
tangible. ORM workshops with senior management signiﬁcantly reinforce
management awareness of worst-case scenarios – beyond traditional and in-
depth knowledge of recurrent incidents. They foster management dialogue
and help align fairly diverging individual perceptions regarding the plausi-
bility and potential severity of certain risks (e.g. leak of information) and their
relative importance in the global risk portfolio of the bank. And they give new
impetus to critical initiatives (e.g. enhance the quality of mission critical IS
services to mitigate worst case scenarios related to information conﬁdenti-
ality, integrity and availability; reﬁne business continuity planning arrange-
ments to more proactively address pandemic, strike or other scenarios
causing extended unavailability of staff; develop non-IT-dependent contin-
gencies to remedy various crisis situations; leverage enabling technologies
such as document management to address risks of information conﬁden-
tiality, integrity and availability; enhance reputation management through
pre-emptive and contingency communication strategy and plans).
9. Bottom-up self-assessments
As a necessary complement to their recent developments regarding top-
down exercises, central banks continue to conduct bottom-up exercises at
the level of their individual business processes (e.g. ‘liquidity management’)
as well as of horizontal risk and control categories (e.g. ‘hacking of infor-
mation systems’). This section discusses the objective and scope of bottom-
up exercises. The experience of the ECB is presented to illustrate a possible
approach and to analyse the relationship between bottom-up risk assess-
ments and Business Process Management (BPM) and Total Quality Mana-
gement (TQM).
9.1 Objective and scope
Central banks have a long tradition of conducting bottom-up exercises to
identify and assess current operational risks, deﬁne new or enhance existing
controls or risk mitigation measures and prioritize related action plans.
In the case of the ECB, the scope of these exercises includes all observed or
potential operational risk events which may expose the bank to an impact of
at least level two according to the impact-grading scale – be it in a worst-
case scenario or under normal business conditions. A rolling ﬁve-year
479
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 508 ---
programme of bottom-up exercises is prepared by the central ORM team
in close cooperation with business areas and approved each year by the
Operational Risk Committee in line with the budget life cycle. This pro-
gramme ensures that all the bank’s processes, horizontal risks and related
controls of the ECB (including those bearing lower impact levels) will
formally be assessed at least every ﬁve years, and that key business processes
and horizontal risks and related controls, as identiﬁed during the top-down
exercise, will be assessed in a coordinated manner over the next twelve
months. In practice, the programme derived from top-down analysis fosters
rational sequencing in ORM implementation and helps avoid that conside-
rations of technical complexity prevail over risk management rationale.
Indeed, a few core central banking processes (e.g. related to economic
analysis and research) must by nature operate under signiﬁcant uncertainty,
use to some extent incomplete and qualitative information and generally
heavily rely on human judgement. As a consequence, these, as well as a few
critical management processes (e.g. related to decision making and project
management), are typically much more complex to address than transac-
tional processes (e.g. payments, IS operations) and are frequently less
covered in early years of ORM implementation.
9.2 Approach
In comparison with top-down exercises, the methodology used in the
context of bottom-up exercises typically includes additional elements and
generate more granular information.
At the ECB, the step of risk identiﬁcation includes a quick review of
existing processes and underlying assets (people, information systems and
infrastructure). The required level of detail of process analysis (i.e. focus on
a ‘level one’ overview of key process steps as opposed to granular ‘level
three’ review of individual activities) is to some extent left to the apprecia-
tion of relevant senior managers depending on resource constraints and
assessed beneﬁts. The central ORM team ensures the respect of minimal
standards (including the use of a standard process documentation tool).
The frequency and impact of process incidents is examined by experts and
managers. No subjective self-assessment is required for risk events in nor-
mal business conditions, as is the case in traditional ORM approaches. By
deﬁnition, historical facts and/or evidence must have been observed – even
though the latter, in most of the cases, are not yet formally compiled in
databases.
480
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 509 ---
Plausible worst-case scenarios at process level are deﬁned according to the
same methodology as used in the top-down assessment. Speciﬁc opportunities
to bring normal and worst-case risks in line with the risk tolerance policy
are ﬁnally discussed. Wherever possible, all these analyses incorporate
results from other existing risk management activities to avoid redundan-
cies and relieve management of unnecessary burden. During the next step,
a cost–beneﬁt assessment of all identiﬁed risk treatment opportunities is
performed, using a simple ABC prioritization scheme. Finally, the conclu-
sive steps of a bottom-up assessment include classical action-planning
activities as described in various risk management standards. Full docu-
mentation of the bottom-up self-assessment via standard templates ensures
consistency and re-usability of performed analyses.
9.3 Bottom-up risk assessments vs. BPM and TQM
Many components of the bottom-up exercises are well established and
widely shared by the central banking community, and inter alia well
documented by the IORWG. Still, two speciﬁc aspects of the methodology
used at the ECB are worth mentioning, as they underscore the speciﬁc value
of ORM vs. disciplines such as BPM and TQM.
ORM differs from operations management or BPM. Selectively orga-
nizing synergy between all these functions is certainly a good idea. Mixing
them up into all-purpose process reviews is a frequent and fatal mistake –
ultimately making bottom-up self-assessments costly and cumbersome and
hindering the cultural acceptance of risk management. Regarding the spe-
ciﬁc area of controls, the focus of the ECB is therefore to assess the
effectiveness (and to a lesser extent the efﬁciency) of new or enhanced
controls, not the efﬁciency (and to lesser extent the effectiveness) of all
existing controls. The latter approach is a traditional, COSO-based practice
which is technically required as a consequence of the following logic ﬂow:
‘current risk’ ¼ ‘inherent risk’ minus ‘reduced risk through existing controls’
Yet, as mentioned above, the ECB framework focuses on actual (and
potential) risks and how to remedy them. Such an approach by deﬁnition
takes into account (and thereby implicitly ‘assesses’) the global effectiveness
of existing controls and of the general control environment.
Where required, a speciﬁc assessment of the general control environment
can be performed through use of compliance check lists reﬂecting relevant
process or functional standards.
481
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 510 ---
For speciﬁc objectives pertaining much more to process optimization
than to ORM, more granular information on the effectiveness and efﬁciency
of individual controls may indeed be required. As benchmarking shows, two
approaches are possible in this respect:
 The ﬁrst, serious and fact based, is traditionally used for instance by
internal audit or organization departments. It consists of conducting
process or procedure walkthroughs on testing samples to verify ex post
how many incidents or anomalies are being detected through given types
of veriﬁcations or controls.
 The alternative approach, frequently mentioned in traditional ORM
frameworks, is arguably always a case of artistic invention: using qualitative
self-assessment questionnaires, experts or managers ascertain whether a
given control is ‘unsatisfactory’, ‘partially satisfactory’ or ‘satisfactory’.
The problem in this approach is not only that subjective (and naturally
partial) opinions of concerned staff should always be challenged by a
neutral third party. More fundamentally, the question on control
effectiveness itself is meaningless in all frameworks where the objective/
target (i.e. the ‘risk tolerance’) is not speciﬁcally predeﬁned. And at any
rate, even when the risk tolerance is deﬁned, the question of effectiveness
by nature can only be satisfactorily addressed at the level of the full
control environment of the institution. By contrast, scoring models used
to assess the relative and incremental contribution of controls x, y or z to
the current risk situation must by design rely on weighting factors
reﬂecting totally subjective and unveriﬁable assumptions.
ORM is not total quality management. As a consequence, at the ECB, the
management of minor incidents is left out of proactive ORM. Bench-
marking evidence show that many central banks have already started a few
years ago to compile databases on internal incidents, loss and near-loss
events. Over time, incident databases always help improving the reliability
and output quality of daily process operations. Even though they almost
never produce a sufﬁcient basis for quantitative modelling, they also pro-
vide useful reference data points to challenge manager’s intuition and to
examine key patterns in smaller issues which may as well apply to cata-
strophes. Yet, systematic and massive capture of incident data has a very
signiﬁcant cost. Reﬂecting on alternative investment priorities for ORM, it
may be useful to keep in mind that daily problems within departments or in
interaction with supplier and customer entities in essence constitute cost
and quality issues, not risk topics. This explains why, as seen before, the
482
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 511 ---
operational risk tolerance policy of the ECB does not require proactive
intervention nor reporting on level one incidents and why the latter are let
out of scope of bottom-up self-assessments.
10. ORM governance
Risk management requires a well-deﬁned and integrated governance model.
Like most ﬁnancial organizations, central banks generally make a distinction
between the management of ﬁnancial and operational risks and usually have
separate management structures for dealing with these two types of risks.
Regarding the latter, ten sound practices for management and supervision
of operational risks have been deﬁned in a seminal paper by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS 2003). Ever since, a few of these
practices have been widely adopted by the central banking community (e.g.
general sponsorship and oversight function to be assumed by the Executive
Board; independent evaluations by internal and external audit functions;
key responsibility of line management to implement ORM). For reasons
mainly pertaining to individual central banks’ size or history, other practices
are being implemented under slightly diverging arrangements (e.g. com-
position of the committee speciﬁcally in charge of ORM; establishment or
not of a dedicated ORM ofﬁcer; relative positioning of the central ORM
function vs. the business continuity function; precise level of decentrali-
zation of ORM activities in business areas etc.). Overall, in most central
banks, a key challenge is still to organize the convergence of all disciplines
related to operational risks and control (including business continuity,
physical security, information conﬁdentiality etc.) and allow for an inte-
grated management of the related risk portfolio.
The new ORM governance model adopted by the ECB in September 2007
comprises the following elements: an Operational Risk Committee (ORC),
staffed with seven senior managers of the bank, deals with strategic/medium-
term topics. The key mission of the ORC is to stimulate and oversee the
development, implementation and maintenance of all disciplines related to
operational risks. To that effect, the speciﬁc responsibilities of the ORC are
to endorse the relevant policy frameworks and strategies; assess the portfolio
of risks and the effectiveness and efﬁciency of treatments of operational risks
across the ECB; plan and monitor all related activities; foster the develop-
ment of risk management culture in the ECB as well as ESCB – and
483
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 512 ---
Eurosystem-wide through appropriate measures and to inform the Execu-
tive Board periodically about the status of ORM. Required input for stra-
tegic decision-making by the ORC is prepared, at a more tactical level, by an
informal network of operational risk managers and risk experts which work
on request of the ORC in the form of ad hoc taskforces. Efﬁciency of ORM
decision making is enhanced by addressing dossiers at the ﬁrst competent
level and limiting representation in taskforces to key business and functional
stakeholders.
A central and integrated ORM and BCM team, hosted by the Organi-
zational Planning Division of the bank, acts as knowledge broker in charge
of cross-fertilizing best practices across business areas and specialized risk
disciplines. On top of coordinating all relevant activities (including response
to incidents), the team assumes classical central activities pertaining to
external benchmarking and cooperation, methodological maintenance (e.g.
library of controls) and development (e.g. integration of ORM databases
and tools), proactive monitoring of and advisory to business areas, con-
solidated reporting, and secretariat of the ORC.
The responsibility and accountability of line managers in the imple-
mentation of ORM in their respective business areas is conﬁrmed and a
decentralized function of ORM coordinators is further formalized – without
creating additional resource requirements let alone new positions. Beyond
participation to mandatory top-down and bottom-up exercises, line mana-
gers, with the support of ORM coordinators, manage their operational risks
as part of daily operations. In particular, they are expected to proactively
consider the speciﬁc risk implications of deﬁned trigger-point events (e.g.
assumed new service responsibility; signiﬁcant stafﬁng or management
change; recent centralization/de-centralization of business process or tech-
nology; introduction of new software or hardware; hired new vendor; iden-
tiﬁed issue during contingency test; speciﬁc ﬁndings in internal and external
audits etc.) where the beneﬁts of ORM analyses are particularly obvious.
11. KRIs and ORM reporting
The ultimate function of ORM is not to report on the status of operational
risks but to provide insightful support for management decisions on
required actions and investments. The present section discusses the gap
between theory and practice in this respect and presents current develop-
ments in the ECB.
484
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 513 ---
11.1 Theory vs. practice
Key risk indicators (KRIs) and ORM reporting represent a particularly
challenging area – arguably one in which sound and nice-sounding advice is
commonplace, yet where most central banks are still struggling with fun-
damental issues.
Take a glance at handbooks, risk management standards and consultant
presentations. Each of them includes a more or less compelling lecture and
colourful charts on what everybody knows: key risk indicators are essential.
They should be SMART (Speciﬁc, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-
bound). They should be tightly linked to the institution’s strategy and risk
policy. They should be simple without being simplistic. They should pri-
marily be ‘leading’ indicators (i.e. have early-warning qualities), trigger
adequate actions based on well-tested ‘safe’, ‘cautionary’, and ‘warning’
thresholds, be multi-dimensional, have a positive ‘value-to-burden’ rela-
tionship, be easy to benchmark, etc. – just add to the list. The following
section on ORM reporting is typically just as enlightening: integrated man-
agement reports should focus on key risks relevant to various management
layers, provide brief and relevant progress reports on action plans and avoid
extraneous detail. Periodicity should be adapted to various risks types etc.
And yet meet ORM practitioners of central banks and candidly discuss
their experience. As documented in the material compiled by the IORWG,
ﬁrst-generation initiatives understandably could not meet the aforemen-
tioned, daunting expectations: while most central banks track a few indi-
cators in a few parts of their organization, they still have not been in a
position to put in place a consistent concept nor a formal implementation
programme for KRIs. A few banks may have started ambitious cooperation
initiatives to co-develop KRI libraries – yet they are now mystiﬁed by a
database of hundreds of potential risk indicators. In many cases, redundant
regular and ad hoc reports on risk, security and control issues, using he-
terogeneous risk taxonomies and grading scales are randomly produced at
various levels of the organization. Board reports frequently include more
than ﬁfty or even a hundred risk items – and a list of the top ﬁve, ten or
twenty top risks of the bank is available in only in very few central banks.
11.2 Current developments at the ECB
Drawing lessons learned from many central bank colleagues, the ECB opted
to start working on KRIs and ORM reporting only after all other elements of
485
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 514 ---
the framework had been properly developed and tested and once insights
from the top-down exercise helped specify priority content for senior
management. Current developments try to transpose the few aspects where
the central banking community has reached common conclusions.
Regarding KRIs, the ECB opted to focus on the few metrics which,
judging by other banks’ experiences, appear to capture most of the value of
early risk prediction or detection. Some of these KRIs are for instance:
 indicators of HR root causes of errors and frauds: e.g. ratio of screened
applications for predeﬁned sensitive jobs; ratios of predeﬁned jobs with
critical skills with appropriate succession planning; trends in consumption
of staff training budget, in job tenure, in staff turnover, in overtime, in
use of temporary staff, in staff satisfaction etc.;
 indicators of process deﬁciencies: e.g. trends in number and type of errors
in input data and reports; transactions requiring corrections or recon-
ciliation; average aging of outstanding issues; unauthorized activities;
transaction delays; counterfeiting rates; customer complaints; customer
satisfaction ratings; ﬁnancial losses; aging structure of pending control
issues etc.;
 indicators of IS vulnerability: e.g. trends in system response time; trouble
tickets; outages; virus or hacker attacks; detected security or conﬁdentia-
lity breaches etc.
An incident-tracking database tool, feeding into relevant KRIs, will be
implemented as from 2009, starting in priority in transaction-intensive
areas (e.g. market operations, payment systems, IS). This tool will be used to
gather adequate experience in the constitution and management of incident
databases and to provide an intermediary solution, until market solutions
for ORM (including capture, assessment, monitoring and reporting of
operational risks) deliver true value for a medium-size, not-for proﬁt
institution like the ECB. In the area of physical security, where prediction
and detection of signiﬁcant external threats is of prominent importance, an
approach limited to KRIs is clearly insufﬁcient. As a consequence, this
function continues to develop, maintain and continuously implement more
advanced monitoring instruments (e.g. intelligence management databases,
scoring systems pertaining to the capacity and motivation of potential
external aggressors etc.). As far as ORM reporting is concerned, the initial
focus of efforts is on top-management reporting. Best practices in the
private sector, which allow for representations of quantitative concen-
trations of ﬁnancial losses in operational risk portfolios, often conﬁrm and
help visualize manager’s intuition: ORM follows a Pareto law. About ten to
486
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 515 ---
twenty operational risks, which truly require Board attention, represent a
signiﬁcant proportion (e.g. 50 per cent) of the value-at-risk linked to ORM.
Monitoring a second cluster of about eighty to ninety additional risk items,
through reporting drill-downs at business area level, is typically sufﬁcient to
cover most (e.g. 80 per cent) of the institution’s value at risk. By contrast a
myriad of existing or potential smaller incidents, which accounts for the
remaining 20 per cent value at risk, only justify tracking at base levels of
the organization.
In the reporting scheme currently under development, top operational
risks will be reported to the Executive Board on a bi-yearly basis and to the
Operational Risk Committee on a bi-monthly basis.
From a content and format perspective, these streamlined ORM reports
will include:
 a global picture of the current level of operational risks (similar to the
‘heat map’ produced as a result of the top-down exercise), listing the top
ten risks (Executive Board report) and top thirty risks (ORC report) and
showing the respective trends vs. the previous period;
 the status of twenty key risk indicators of the ECB;
 a rating of the general control environment by macro-process and
horizontal risk category;
 an overview of progress in ORM implementation roll-out by macro-
process and horizontal risk category;
 a qualitative synthesis of achievement improvements in key areas of
controls.
In line with best practices, this dashboard will be supported by a tool
allowing for user-friendly visual representations and simulations.
Equally as from 2009, standard and ‘light’ yearly business area reports on
ORM will be implemented. If deemed advisable after detailed examination
of the pros and cons, the latter will be complemented by a management
assertion letter. The latter is a best-practice instrument which was originally
created in the context of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation and has since been
adopted by public institutions like the European Commission. In short, the
assertion letter is an annual declaration whereby senior managers indi-
vidually attest the effectiveness and efﬁciency of the key internal controls
in light of the key risks identiﬁed in their business area, point out reser-
vations, and mention implemented or planned improvement measures.
Frequently reported beneﬁts of such a scheme are increased awareness on
operational risks and controls and reinforced management responsibility
and accountability. Indeed, external practice also suggests that a horizon of
487
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 516 ---
at least one year of ORM implementation is required to provide managers
with a sound base of information, knowledge and experience on key
operational risks and controls.
12. Conclusions
Over the past twenty years, most central banks have historically developed
and built separate risk management frameworks for various business and
functional risks, then generally adopted frameworks like COSO to introduce
some homogeneity, and more recently attempted to selectively transpose
more sophisticated quantitative models of the commercial banking sector.
More recently, after having achieved very signiﬁcant progress in speciﬁc
areas (e.g. deﬁning a taxonomy of operational risk events, conducting
a number of bottom-up self-assessments, transposing the sound practices
of ORM governance), central banks have dramatically increased inter-
professional benchmarking and cooperation. In various forums, they now
launch next generation developments with a view to reduce subjectivity in
risk assessments, integrate risk reports to support management decisions
and alleviate costs of ORM implementation.
With the beneﬁt of accumulated hindsight and lessons learned from our
central banking colleagues, and reviewing the more recent developments
and provisional achievements in the ECB, we can only conﬁrm that a para-
digm shift is both necessary and possible in this area.
Nowadays, there is only little merit to reformulate consultants’ ritual
recommendations such as ‘getting top management commitment’, ‘putting
ﬁrst things ﬁrst’, ‘keeping it simple’, ‘managing expectations’, ‘delivering
value to the customers’ or ‘achieving quick wins’. Regrettably, such prin-
ciples prove to be less actionable key success factors to guide action ex ante
than simple performance criteria to evaluate results ex post. In our view,
what ORM managers and experts perhaps mostly need is to use a sound
combination of analytical rigour, common sense, courage, discipline and
diplomacy. Only such virtues can help them carefully steer their institutions
away from conservatism (‘Why change? Bank X or Y does just the same as us’)
and/or ﬂavour-of-the month concepts and gimmicks (‘The critical success
factor is to implement KRIs – or: a balanced scorecard / a management
dashboard / fully documented processes and procedures / an integrated ORM
solution / a risk awareness programme / a global Enterprise Risk Management
perspective etc.’).
488
Sevet, J.-C.

--- Página 517 ---
Looking ahead, the critical challenge appears to be, as often the case in
management matters, one about people and values. From senior manage-
ment down to the grass-roots level, new ORM champions and role models
are required to develop and nurture a new organizational culture and
respond to three key demands: Serving the needs and aspirations of highly
educated and experienced service professionals, ORM cannot impose intru-
sive transparency, but must credibly encourage individuals and teams to
openly disclose own mistakes and near misses. Faced with an increasingly
complex and uncertain business environment, ORM cannot just ‘build
awareness’ on operational risks but must foster proactive attitudes of risk
detection, prevention and mitigation. And spurred by new constraints of
effectiveness and efﬁciency, ORM must fundamentally reorientate the tradi-
tional zero-risk culture of central bankers towards a culture of explicit risk
tolerance and of cost–beneﬁt assessments of controls.
The ORM journey, it seems, is only starting.
489
Operational risk management in central banks

--- Página 518 ---
References
Acharya, V., Bharath, S. T., Srinivasan, A. 2003. ‘Understanding the recovery rates on
defaulted securities’, CEPR Discussion Paper 4098.
Acworth, P., Broadie, M. and Glasserman, P. 1997. ‘A comparison of some Monte Carlo and
quasi-Monte Carlo techniques for option pricing’, in P. Hellekalek, H. Niederreiter
(eds.), Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods 1996., Lecture Notes in Statistics
vol. 127. New York: Springer-Verlag, pp. 1–18.
Akeda, Y. 2003. ‘Another interpretation of negative Sharpe ratio’, Journal of Performance
Measurement 7(3): 19–23.
Alexander, C. 1999. Risk management and analysis: Measuring and modeling ﬁnancial risk.
New York: Wiley.
Alexander, G. J. and Baptista, A. M. 2003. ‘Portfolio performance evaluation using value at
risk’, Journal of Portfolio Management 29: 93–102.
Almgren, R. and Chriss, N. 1999. ‘Value under liquidation’, Risk 12: 61–3.
Altman, E. I. and Kishore, V. M. 1996. ‘Almost everything you wanted to know about
recoveries on defaulted bonds’, Financial Analysts Journal 52(6): 57–64.
Altman, E. I., Brady, B., Resti A. and Sironi, A. 2005a. ‘The link between default and recovery
rates: Theory, empirical evidence and implications’, The Journal of Business 78(6):
2203–28.
Altman, E. I., Resti, A. and Sironi A. (eds.) 2005b. Recovery risk: the next challenge in credit
risk management. London: Risk Books.
Altman, E. I., Resti, A. and Sironi, A. 2004. ‘Default recovery rates in credit risk modelling:
A review of the literature and empirical evidence’, Economic Notes 33: 183–208.
Amato, J. D. and Remolona, E. M. 2003. ‘The credit spread puzzle’, BIS Quarterly Review 12/
2003: 51–63.
Amihud, Y. and Mendelson, H. 1991. ‘Liquidity, maturity and the yields on U.S. Treasury
securities’, Journal of Finance 46: 1411–25.
Andersson, F., Mausser, H., Rosen, D. and Uryasev, S. 2001. ‘Credit risk optimisation with
conditional Value-at-Risk criterion’, Mathematical Programming, Series B 89: 273–91.
Ankrim, E. M. and Hensel, C. R. 1994. ‘Multicurrency performance attribution’, Financial
Analysts Journal 50(2): 29–35.
Apel, E. 2003. Central banking systems compared: The ECB, the pre-euro Bundesbank and the
Federal Reserve System. London and New York: Routledge.
Artzner, P., Delbaen, F., Eber, J.-M. and Heath, D. 1999. ‘Coherent measures of risk’,
Mathematical Finance 9: 203–28.
490

--- Página 519 ---
Asarnow, E. and Edwards, D. 1995. ‘Measuring loss on defaulted bank loans: A 24-year
study’, Journal of Commercial Lending 77(7): 11–23.
Association of Insurance and Risk Managers. 2002. ‘A risk management standard’, www.
theirm.org/publications/documents/Risk_Management_Standard_030820.pdf.
Bacon, C. 2004. Practical portfolio performance measurement and attribution. London: Wiley.
Bagehot, W. 1873. Lombard Street: A description of the money market. London: H.S. King.
Bakker, A. F. P. and van Herpt, I. R. Y. 2007. Central bank reserve management: new trends,
from liquidity to return. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Bandourian, R. and Winkelmann, K. 2003 ‘The market portfolio’, in Litterman (ed.),
pp. 91–103.
Bangia, A., Diebold, F., Schuermann, T. and Stroughair, J. 1999. ‘Making the best of the worst’,
Risk 10: 100–3.
Bank for International Settlements. 1999. Implications of repo markets for central banks. Basel:
Bank for International Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/cgfs10.pdf.
Bank for International Settlements. 2005. ‘Zero-coupon yield curves: Technical doc-
umentation’, BIS Papers 25.
Bank of Japan. 2004. ‘Guidelines on eligible collateral’, www.boj.or.jp/en/type/law/ope/yoryo18.
htm.
Bardos, M., Foulcher, S. and Bataille, E´. (eds.) 2004. Les scores de la Banque de France:
Me´thode, re´sultats, applications. Paris: Banque de France, Observatoire des entreprises.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 1998a. ‘Framework for internal control systems in
banking organizations’, Bank for International Settlements 09/1998, www.bis.org/publ/
bcbs40.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 1998b. ‘Operational risk management’, Bank for
International Settlements 09/1998, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs42.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2000a. ‘Credit ratings and complementary sources
of credit quality information’, BCBS Working Papers 3, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs_wp3.
pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2000b. ‘Principles for the management of credit
risk’, Bank for International Settlements 09/2000, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs54.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2001a. ‘The new Basel capital accord’, BIS Con-
sultative document, www.bis.org/publ/bcbsca03.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2001b. ‘The internal ratings-based approach’, BIS
Consultative Document, www.bis.org/publ/bcbsca05.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2002. ‘The quantitative impact study for oper-
ational risk: Overview of individual loss data and lessons learned’, Bank for Inter-
national Settlements 01/2002, www.bis.org/bcbs/qisopriskresponse.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2003. ‘Sound practices for the management and
supervision of operational risk’, Bank for International Settlements 07/2003, www.bis.
org/publ/bcbs96.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2004. ‘Principles for the management and
supervision of interest rate risk’, Bank for International Settlements 07/2004, www.bis.
org/publ/bcbsca09.pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2006a. Enhancing corporate governance for banking
organisations. Basel: Bank for International Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs122.pdf.
491
References

--- Página 520 ---
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2006b. Basel II: International convergence of capital
measurement and capital standards: A revised framework – Comprehensive version. Basel:
Bank for International Settlements.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2006c. ‘Core principles for effective banking
supervision’, Bank for International Settlements 10/2006, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs129.
pdf.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2006d. ‘Studies on credit risk concentration: An
overview of the issues and a synopsis of the results from the Research Task Force
project’, BCBS Working Paper 15, www.bis.org/publ/bcbs_wp15.pdf.
BCBS. See Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
Berger, A., Davies, S. and Flannery, M. 1998. ‘Comparing market and regulatory assessments
of bank performance: Who knows what when?’, FEDS Working Paper 03/1998.
Berk, J. B. and Green, R. C. 2002. ‘Mutual fund ﬂows and performance in rational markets’,
NBER Working Paper 9275.
Bernadell, C., Cardon, P., Coche, J., Diebold, F. X. and Manganelli, S. (eds.) 2004. Risk
management for central bank foreign reserves. Frankfurt am Main: European Central
Bank.
Bernadell, C., Coche, J. and Nyholm, K. 2005. ‘Yield curve prediction for the strategic
investor’, ECB Working Paper Series 472.
Bertsekas, D. 1999. Nonlinear programming. 2nd edn. Belmont: Athena Scientiﬁc.
Bertsimas, D. and Lo, A. 1998. ‘Optimal control of execution costs’, Journal of Financial
Markets 1: 1–50.
Bester, H. 1987. ‘The Role of Collateral in Credit Markets with Imperfect Information’,
European Economic Review 31: 887–99.
Bindseil, U. 2004. Monetary policy implementation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bindseil, U. and Nyborg, K. 2008. ‘Monetary policy implementation’, in X. Freixas,
P. Hartmann and C. Mayer (eds.), Financial markets and institutions: a European per-
spective. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bindseil, U. and Papadia, F. 2006. ‘Credit risk mitigation in central bank operations and its
effects on ﬁnancial markets: The case of the Eurosystem’, ECB Occasional Paper
Series 49.
Bindseil, U., Camba-Mendez, C., Hirsch, A. and Weller, B. 2006. ‘Excess reserves and the
implementation of monetary policy of the ECB’, Journal of Policy Modelling 28:
491–510.
Bindseil, U., Manzanares, A. and Weller, B. 2004a. ‘The role of central bank capital revisited’,
ECB Working Paper Series 392.
Bindseil, U., Nyborg, K. and Strebulaev, I. 2004b. ‘Bidding and performance in repurchase
auctions: evidence from ECB open market operations’, CEPR Discussion Paper 4367.
BIS. See Bank for International Settlements.
Black, F. and Litterman, R. 1992. ‘Global portfolio optimization’, Financial Analysts Journal
48: 28–43.
Black, F. and Scholes, M. 1973. ‘The pricing of options and corporate liabilities’, Journal of
Political Economy 81: 637–59.
Black, F., Derman, E. and Toy, W. 1990. ‘A one factor model of interest rates and its
application to the Treasury bond options’, Financial Analysts Journal 46: 33–9.
492
References

--- Página 521 ---
Blejer, M. and Schumacher, L. 2000. ‘Central banks use of derivatives and other contingent
liabilities: Analytical issues and policy implications’, IMF Working Paper 66.
Blenck, D., Hasko, H., Hilton, S. and Masaki, K. 2001. ‘The main features of the monetary
policy frameworks of the Bank of Japan, the Federal Reserve and the Eurosystem’, BIS
Paper 9: 23–56.
Bliss, R. 1997. ‘Movements in the term structure of interest rates’, Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta Economic Review 82(4): 16–33.
Bluhm, C., Overbeck, L. and Wagner, C. 2003. An introduction to credit risk modeling.
London: Chapman & Hall.
Bonafede, J. K., Foresti, S. J. and Matheos, P. 2002. ‘A multi-period linking algorithm that
has stood the test of time’, Journal of Performance Measurement 7(1): 15–26.
Bookstaber, R. and Clarke, R. 1984. ‘Option portfolio strategies: Measurement and
evaluation’, Journal of Business 57(4): 469–92.
Borio, C. E. V. 1997. ‘The implementation of monetary policy in industrial countries:
A survey’, BIS Economic Paper 47.
2001. ‘A hundred ways to skin a cat: Comparing monetary policy operating procedures in
the United States, Japan and the euro area’, BIS Paper 9: 1–22.
Brennan, M. and Schwartz, E. 1979. ‘A continuous time approach to the pricing of bonds’,
Journal of Banking and Finance 3: 133–55.
1982. ‘An equilibrium model of bond pricing and test of market efﬁciency’, Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis 17(3): 301–29.
Brickley, J. A., Smith, C. W. Jr. and Zimmerman, J. L. 2007. Managerial economics and
organizational structure. Boston: McGraw-Hill.
Brinson, G. P. and Fachler, N. 1985. ‘Measuring non-U.S. equity portfolio performance’,
Journal of Portfolio Management 1 1(3): 73–76.
Brinson, G. P., Hood, L. R. and Beebower, G. L. 1986. ‘Determinants of portfolio
performance’, Financial Analysts Journal 42(4): 39–44.
Brinson, G. P., Singer, B. D. and Beebower, G. L. 1991. ‘Determinants of portfolio per-
formance II: An update’, Financial Analysts Journal 47(3): 40–8.
British Standard Institutions. 2006. Business continuity management – Part 1: Code of practice.
United Kingdom: British Standards Institutions.
Bucay, N. and Rosen, D. 1999. ‘Credit risk of an international bond portfolio: a case study’,
Algo Research Quarterly 2(1): 9–29.
Buchholz M., Fischer, B. R. and Kleis, D. 2004. ‘Attributionsanalyse fu¨r Rentenportfolios’,
Finanz Betrieb 7–8: 534–51.
Buhl, H. U., Schneider, J. and Tretter, B. 2000. ‘Performanceattribution im Private Banking’,
Die Bank 40(5): 318–323.
Buiter, W. and Sibert, A. 2005. ‘How the ECB’s open market operations weaken ﬁscal
discipline in the eurozone (and what to do about it)’, CEPR Discussion Paper 5387.
Burnie, J. S., Knowles, J. A. and Teder, T. J. 1998. ‘Arithmetic and geometric attribution’,
Journal of Performance Measurement 3(1): 59–68.
Burns, W. and Chu, W. 2005. ‘An OAS Framework for portfolio attribution analysis’, Journal
of Performance Measurement 9(4): 8–20.
Business Continuity Institute. 2007. Good practice guidelines. United Kingdom: British
Standards Institutions, www.thebci.org/CHAPTER2BCIGPG07.pdf.
493
References

--- Página 522 ---
Caballero, R. J. and Krishnamurthy, A. 2007. ‘Collective risk management in a ﬂight to
quality episode’, NBER Working Paper 12896.
Caﬂisch, R. E., Morokoff, W. and Owen, A. 1997. ‘Valuation of mortgage-backed securities
using brownian bridges to reduce effective dimension’, The Journal of Computational
Finance 1(1): 27–46.
Calvo, G. and Leiderman, L. 1992. ‘Optimal inﬂation tax under precommitment: Theory and
evidence’, American Economic Review 82: 174–94.
Campbell, J. O. and Viceira, L. M. 2002. Strategic Asset Allocation. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Campbell, J.O., Lo, A. and Mackinley, A. C. 1997. The Econometrics of Financial Markets.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Campbell, S. D. 2006. ‘A review of backtesting and backtesting procedures’, The Journal of
Risk 9(2): 1–18.
Campisi, S. 2000. ‘Primer on ﬁxed income performance attribution’, Journal of Performance
Measurement 4(4): 14–25.
2002. ‘While we expound on theory, have we forgotten practice?’, Journal of Performance
Measurement 7(2): 7–8.
Carhart, M. M. 1997. ‘On persistence in mutual fund performance’, Journal of Finance 52(1):
57–82.
Carino, D. R. 1999. ‘Combining attribution effects over time’, Journal of Performance Meas-
urement 3(4): 5–14.
Carty, L. V. and Lieberman, D. 1996. ‘Defaulted bank loan recoveries’, Moody’s Investors
Service, Global Credit Research special report 11/1996, www.moodys.com.
Catarineu-Rabell E., Patricia Jackson, and D. Tsomocos, 2003, ‘Procyclicality and the New
Basel Accord-Banks’ Choice of Loan Rating System’, Bank of England Working Paper
No. 181.
CGFS. See Committee on the Global Financial System.
Chance, D. M. and Jordan, J. V. 1996. ‘Duration, convexity, and time as components of bond
returns’, Journal of Fixed Income 6: 88–96.
Chappell, D. 2004. Enterprise service bus. New York: O’Reilly.
Chartered Financial Analyst Institute 2006. Global investment performance standards (GIPS)
handbook. 2nd edn. Charlottesville: Chartered Financial Analyst Institute.
Christensen, P.O. and Sorensen, B. G. 1994. ‘Duration, convexity, and time value’, Journal of
Portfolio Management 20: 51–60.
Claessens, S. and Kreuser, J. 2007. ‘Strategic foreign reserves risk management: an analytical
framework’, Annals of Operations Research 152(1): 79–113.
Coase, R. 1937. ‘The nature of the ﬁrm’, Economica 4: 386–405.
1960. ‘The problem of social cost’, The Journal of Law and Economics, 3, 1–44.
Cochrane J. H. 2001. Asset pricing. Princeton: Princeton University Press, chapter 20.
Colin, A. 2005. Fixed income attribution. London: Wiley.
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 2004. ‘Enterprise risk
management – an integrated framework’, Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission 2004/09, www.coso.org/Publications/ERM/COSO_ERM_
Executive Summary.pdf.
494
References

--- Página 523 ---
Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems. 2000. The contribution of payment systems to
ﬁnancial stability. Basel: Bank for International Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/cpss41.pdf.
Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems. 2006. Cross-border collateral arrangements.
Basel: Bank for International Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/cpss71.pdf.
Committee on the Global Financial System. 1999. ‘Market liquidity: Research ﬁndings and
selected policy implications’, Bank for International Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/
cgfs11overview.pdf.
Committee on the Global Financial System. 2001. Collateral in wholesale ﬁnancial markets:
recent trends, risk management and market dynamics. Basel: Bank for International
Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/cgfs17.pdf.
Committee on the Global Financial System. 2005. The role of ratings in structured ﬁnance:
issues and implications. Basel: Bank for International Settlements, www.bis.org/publ/
cgfs23.pdf.
Connor, G. and Korajczyk, R. 1986. ‘Performance measurement with the arbitrage pricing
theory: A new framework for analysis’, Journal of Financial Economics 15(3): 373–94.
Coppens, F., Gonza´lez, F. and Winkler, G. 2007 ‘The performance of credit rating systems in
the assessment of collateral used in Eurosystem monetary policy operations’, ECB
Occasional Paper Series 65.
COSO. See Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Cossin, D. and Pirotte, H. 2007. Advanced credit risk analysis: Financial approaches and
mathematical models to assess, price and manage credit risk. 2nd edn. New York: Wiley.
Cossin, D., Gonzalez, F., Huang, Z. and Aunon-Nerin, D. 2003. ‘A framework for collateral
risk control determination’, ECB Working Paper 209.
Cotterill, C. H. E. 1996. Investment performance mathematics: Time weighted and dollar
weighted rates of return. Hoboken: Metri-Star Press.
Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group I. 1999. ‘Improving counterparty risk man-
agement practices’, Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group 06/1999, ﬁ-
nancialservices.house.gov/banking/62499crm.pdf.
Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group. II 2005. ‘Towards greater ﬁnancial stability: A
private sector perspective’, The Report of the Counterparty Risk Management Policy
Group II 07/2005, www.crmpolicygroup.org/docs/CRMPG-II.pdf.
Cox, L. C., Ingersoll, J. E. and Ross, S. A. 1985. ‘A theory of the term structure of interest
rates’, Econometrica 53(2): 385–407.
CPSS. See Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems.
Cranley R. and Patterson, T. N. L. 1976. ‘Randomization of number theoretic methods for
multiple integration’, SIAM Journal of Numerical Analysis 13(6): 904–14.
Crouhy, M., Galai, D. and Mark, R. 2001. Risk management. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Cruz, M. 2002. Modeling, measuring and hedging operational risks. New York: Wiley.
Cubilie´, M. 2005. ‘Fixed income attribution model’, Journal of Performance Measurement 10
(2): 49–63.
Dalton, J. and Dziobek, C. 2005. ‘Central bank losses and experiences in selected countries’,
IMF Working Paper 05/72.
Daniel, F., Engert, W. and Maclean, D. 2004. ‘The Bank of Canada as lender of last resort’,
Bank of Canada Review Winter 2004–05: 3–16.
495
References

--- Página 524 ---
Danmarks Nationalbank. 2004. Financial management at Danmarks Nationalbank. Copen-
hagen: Danmarks Nationalbank.
Davies, O. and Laker, D. 2001. ‘Multiple-period performance attribution using the Brinson
model’, Journal of Performance Measurement 6(1): 12–22.
De Almeida da Silva Junior, A. F. 2004. ‘Performance attribution for ﬁxed income port-
folios in Central Bank of Brazil international reserves management’, in C. Bernadell,
P. Cardon, J. Coche, F. X. Diebold and S. Manganelli (eds.), Risk management for central
bank foreign reserves. Frankfurt am Main: European Central Bank, pp. 315–29.
de Beaufort, R., Benitez, S. and Palomino, F. 2002. ‘The case for reserve managers to invest in
corporate debt’, Central Banking 12(4): 79–87.
Deutsche Bank 2005. ‘Annual review 2005’, annualreport.deutsche-bank.com/2005/ar/ser-
vicepages/downloads.php.
Deutsche Bundesbank. 2006. ‘Synopsis of the Deutsche Bundesbank’s procedure for ana-
lysing credit standing’, www.bundesbank.de/gm/gm_sicherheiten_downloads.en.php.
Diamond, D. and Dybvig, P. 1983. ‘Bank runs, deposit insurance and liquidity’, Journal of
Political Economy 91: 401–19.
Diebold, F.X. and Li, C. (2006), ‘Forecasting the term structure of Government Bond Yields’,
Journal of Econometrics 130: 337–64.
Dietz, P. 1966. Pension funds: Measuring investment performance. New York: Free Press.
Dowd, K. 2005. Measuring market risk. 2nd edn. Chichester: Wiley Finance.
Dufﬁe, D. and Singleton, K. J. 2003. Credit risk: Pricing, measurement and management.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Dynkin, L and Hyman, J. 2002. ‘Multi-factor risk models and their applications’ in
F. Fabozzi (ed.), Interest rate, term structure, and valuation modeling. Hoboken: Wiley,
pp. 241–94.
2004. ‘Multi-factor risk analysis of bond portfolios’ in C. Bernadell, P. Cardon, J. Coche,
F. X. Diebold and S. Manganelli (eds.), Risk management for central bank foreign reserves.
Frankfurt am Main: European Central Bank, pp. 201–21.
2006. ‘Multi–factor risk models and their applications’ in Fabozzi, Martellini and Priaulet
(eds.) pp. 195–246.
Dynkin, L., Gould, A., Hyman, J., Konstantinovsky, V. and Phelps, B. 2006. Quantitative
management of bond portfolios. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
ECB. See European Central Bank.
Elton, E. J, Gruber, M. J, Brown, S. J. and Goetzmann, W. N. 2003. Modern portfolio theory
and investment analysis, Hoboken: Wiley.
Engstro¨m, S. 2004. ‘Does active portfolio management create value? An evaluation of fund
managers’ decisions’, SSE/EFI Working Paper Series in Economics and Finance 553.
Ernhagen, T., Vesterlund, M. and Viotti, S. 2002. ‘How much equity does a central bank
need?’, Sveriges Riksbank Economic Review 2/2002: 5–18.
Esseghaier, Z., Lal, T., Cai, P. and Hannay, P. 2004. ‘Yield curve decomposition and ﬁxed-
income attribution’, Journal of Performance Measurement 8(4): 30–45.
European Central Bank. 2004a. ‘Risk mitigation measures in Eurosystem credit operations’,
Monthly Bulletin 05/2004: 71–9.
European Central Bank. 2004b. ‘The euro bond market study’, www.ecb.int/pub/pdf/other/
eurobondmarketstudy2004en.pdf.
496
References

--- Página 525 ---
European Central Bank. 2006a. ‘Portfolio management at the ECB’, Monthly Bulletin 4/2006:
75–86.
European Central Bank. 2006b. ‘The implementation of monetary policy in the euro area –
General documentation of Eurosystem monetary policy instruments and procedures’,
General Documentation 09/2006, www.ecb.int/pub/pdf/other/gendoc2006en.pdf
European Central Bank. 2007a. ‘Euro Money Market Study 2007’, www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/
pdf/other/euromoneymarketstudy200702en.pdf.
European Central Bank. 2007b. ‘The collateral frameworks of the Federal Reserve System, the
Bank of Japan and the Eurosystem’, Monthly Bulletin 10/2007: 85–100.
Ewerhart, C. and Tapking, J. 2008. ‘Repo markets, counterparty risk, and the 2007/2008
liquidity crisis’, ECB Working Paper Series 909.
Fabozzi, F. J., Martellini, L. and Priaulet, P. 2006. Advanced bond portfolio management.
Hoboken: Wiley.
Fama, E. F. and French, K. R. 1992. ‘The cross–section of expected stock returns’, Journal of
Finance 47(2): 427–65.
1993. ‘Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and bonds’, Journal of Financial
Economics 33: 3–56.
1995. ‘Size and book-to-market factors in earnings and returns’, Journal of Finance 50(1):
131–55.
1996. ‘Multifactor explanations of asset pricing anomalies’, Journal of Finance 51(1): 55–84.
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 2007. ‘Domestic open market operations during 2006’,
Annual Report to the FOMC, app.ny.frb.org/markets/omo/omo2006.pdf.
Federal Reserve System. 2002. ‘Alternative instruments for open market operations and
discount window operations’, Federal Reserve Study Group on Alternative Instruments
for System Operations, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, www.
federalreserve.gov/BoardDocs/Surveys/soma/alt_instrmnts.pdf
Feibel, B. J. 2003. Investment performance measurement. Hoboken: Wiley.
Fender, I. and Ho¨rdahl, P. 2007. ‘Overview: credit retrenchment triggers liquidity squeeze’,
BIS Quarterly Review, 09/2007: 1–16.
Financial Markets Association. 2007. The ACI model code – The international code of conduct
and practice for the ﬁnancial markets. Committee for Professionalism, cfmx2003.w3line.
fr/aciforex/docs/misc/2007may15.pdf.
Fischer, B., Ko¨hler, P. and Seitz, F. 2004. ‘The demand for euro area currencies: past, present
and future’, ECB Working Paper Series 330.
FitchRatings. 2006. ‘Fitch Ratings global corporate ﬁnance 1990–2005 transition and default
study’, FitchRatings Credit Market Research, www.ﬁtchratings.com.
Flannery, M. 1996. ‘Financial crisis, payment system problems, and discount window
lending’, Journal of money credit and banking 28: 804–24.
Fong, G., Pearson, C. and Vasicek, O. A. 1983. ‘Bond performance: Analyzing sources of
return’, Journal of Portfolio Management 9: 46–50.
Freixas, X, Giannini, C., Hoggarth, G. and Soussa, F. 1999. ‘Lender of Last Resort: a review of
the literature’, Bank of England Financial Stability Review 7: 151–67.
Freixas, X. 1999. ‘Optimal bail out policy, conditionality and constructive ambiguity’,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Economics and Business Working Paper, www.econ.upf.
edu/docs/papers/downloads/400.pdf.
497
References

--- Página 526 ---
Freixas, X. and Rochet, J.-C. 1997. Microeconomics of banking. Cambridge (MA): The MIT
Press.
Freixas, X., Parigi, B. M. and Rochet, J.-C. 2003. ‘The lender of last resort: a 21st century
approach’, ECB Working Paper Series 298.
Frongello, A. 2002a. ‘Linking single period attribution results’, Journal of Performance
Measurement 6(3): 10–22.
2002b. ‘Attribution linking: Proofed and clariﬁed’, Journal of Performance Measurement
7(1): 54–67.
Frye, J. 2000. ‘Collateral damage detected’, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Emerging Issues
Series Working Paper 10/2000 1–14.
Glasserman, P. 2004. Monte Carlo methods in ﬁnancial engineering. New York: Springer-
Verlag.
Glasserman, P., Heidelberger, P. and Shahabuddin, P. 1999. ‘Asymptotically optimal
importance sampling and stratiﬁcation for pricing path-dependent options’, Math-
ematical Finance 9(2): 117–52.
Glosten, L.R. and Milgrom, P. R. 1985. ‘Bid, ask and transaction prices in a specialist market
with heterogeneously informed traders’, Journal of Financial Economics 14: 71–100.
Goodfriend, M. and Lacker. J. F. 1999. ‘Limited commitment and central bank lending’,
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Quarterly Review 85(4): 1–27.
Goodhart, C. A. E. 1999. ‘Myths about the lender of last resort’, International Finance 2:
339–60.
2000. ‘Can central banking survive the IT revolution?’, International Finance 3(66):
189–209.
Goodhart, C. A. E. and Illing, G. 2002. Financial crises, contagion and the lender of last resort:
A Reader. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Goodwin, T. H. 1998. ‘The information ratio’, Financial Analysts Journal 54(4): 34–43.
Gordy, M. B. 2003. ‘A risk-factor model foundation for ratings-based bank capital rules’,
Journal of Financial Intermediation 12: 199–232.
Gordy, M. B. and Lu¨tkebohmert, E. 2007. ‘Granularity adjustment for Basel II’, Deutsche
Bundesbank, Discussion Paper Series 2: Banking and Financial Studies 01/2007.
Gould, T. and Jiltsov, A. 2004. ‘The case for foreign exchange exposure in U.S. ﬁxed income
portfolios’, Lehman Brothers, www.lehman.com.
Grava, R. L. 2004. ‘Corporate bonds in central bank reserves portfolios: a strategic asset
allocation perspective’, in C. Bernadell, P. Cardon, J. Coche, F. X. Diebold and
S. Manganelli (eds.), Risk Management for Central Bank Foreign Reserves. Frankfurt am
Main: European Central Bank, 167–79.
Gre´goire, P. 2006. ‘Risk attribution’, Journal of Performance Measurement 11(1): 67–77.
Grinold, R. C. and Kahn, R. N. 2000. Active portfolio management. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Grossman, S. and Stiglitz J. E. 1980. ‘On the impossibility of informationally efﬁcient
markets’, American Economic Review 70: 393–408.
Guitierrez, M.-J. and Vazquez, J. 2004. ‘Explosive hyperinﬂation, inﬂation-tax Laffer curve,
and modeling the use of money’, Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics 160:
311–26.
Gupton, G. M., Finger, C. C. and Bhatia, M. 1997. ‘CreditMetrics – Technical Document’,
JPMorgan, www.riskmetrics.com.
498
References

--- Página 527 ---
Hamilton, J. D. 1994. Time series analysis. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Hamilton, J. D. and Varma, P. 2006. ‘Default and recovery rates of corporate bond issuers,
1920–2005’, Moody’s Report 96546, www.moodys.com
Hanson, S., Pesaran, M. H. and Schuermann, T. 2005. ‘Firm heterogeneity and credit risk
diversiﬁcation’, CESifo Working Paper Series 1531.
Hawtrey, R. 1932. The art of central banking. London: Longmans.
Henrard, M. 2000. ‘Comparison of cashﬂow maps for value-at-risk’, Journal of Risk 3(1):
57–71.
Hirshleifer, J. 1971. ‘The private and social value of information and the reward to inventive
activity’, American Economic Review 61: 561–74.
Ho, T. S. Y. 1992. ‘Key rate durations: Measures of interest rate risks’, Journal of Fixed Income
2: 29–44.
Ho, T. S. Y. and Lee, S.-B. 1986. ‘Term structure movements and pricing interest rate
contingent claims’, Journal of Finance 41(5): 1011–29.
Ho, T. S. Y., Chen, M. Z. H. and Eng, F. H. T. 1996. ‘VAR analytics: Portfolio structure, key
rate convexities, and VAR betas’, Journal of Portfolio Management 23: 90–8.
Holton, G. A. 2003. Value-at-risk: Theory and practice. Boston: Academic Press.
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. 1999. ‘Policy statement on the role of the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority as lender of last resort’, Quarterly Bulletin 8/1999: 77–81.
Huang, C. and Litzenberger, R. 1988. Foundations for ﬁnancial economics. New Jersey:
Prentice-Hall.
Hull, J. and White, A. 1990. ‘Pricing interest rate derivative securities’, Review of Financial
Studies 3: 573–92.
1993. ‘One factor interest rate models and the valuation of interest rate derivative
securities’, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 28(2): 235–54.
Humphrey, T. 1986. ‘The classical concept of lender of last resort’, in T. Humphrey and
V. Richmond (eds.), Essays on inﬂation. 5th ed. Richmond: Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond.
IMF. See International Monetary Fund.
Information Security Forum. 2000. ‘Fundamental information risk management’, Infor-
mation Security Forum 03/2000, www.securityforum.org/assests/pdf/ﬁrm.pdf.
Ingersoll, J.E. (1987). Theory of ﬁnancial decision making. Savage: Rowman & Littleﬁeld.
Institute of Internal Auditors. 2004. ‘The role of internal audit in enterprise-wide risk
management’, Institute of Internal Auditors 09/2004, www.theiia.org/download.
cfm?ﬁle¼283.
Institute of International Finance. 2007 ‘Principles of liquidity risk management’, Report
03/2007, www.afgap.org
International Monetary Fund. 2004. Guidelines for foreign exchange reserve management.
Washington (DC): International Monetary Fund.
International Monetary Fund. 2005. Guidelines for foreign exchange reserve management:
Accompanying document and case studies. Washington (DC): International Monetary
Fund.
International Organization for Standardization. 2002. Risk management – Vocabulary –
Guidelines for use in standards. Geneva: International Organization for Standardization,
International Electrotechnical Commission.
499
References

--- Página 528 ---
International Organization for Standardization. 2005. Information technology – Security
techniques – Information security management systems – Requirements. Geneva:
International
Organization
for
Standardization,
International
Electrotechnical
Commission.
International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions. 2004. Guidelines for internal
control standards for the public sector. Brussels: International Organization of Supreme
Audit Institutions, intosai.connexcc-hosting.net/blueline/upload/1guicspubsece.pdf.
International Swaps and Derivatives Association. 2006. ‘Guidelines for collateral practitioners’,
www.isda.org.
Ippolito, R. A. 1989. ‘Efﬁciency with costly information: a study of mutual fund perform-
ance, 1965–1984’, Quarterly Journal of Economics 104: 1–23.
ISDA. See International Swap and Derivatives Association.
Israel, R.B., Rosenthal, J.S., Wei, J.Z. 2001. ‘Finding generators for Markov chains via
empirical transition matrices, with applications to credit ratings’, Mathematical Finance,
11(2): 245–65.
Ja¨ckel, P. 2002. Monte Carlo methods in ﬁnance. New York: Wiley.
Jarrow, R. A. and Subramanian, A. 1997. ‘Mopping up liquidity’, Risk 10: 170–3.
Jensen, M. C. 1968. ‘The performance of mutual funds in the period 1945 – 1964’, Journal of
Finance 23(2): 389–419.
Jensen, M. C. and Meckling, W. H. 1976. ‘Theory of the ﬁrm: managerial behavior, agency
costs and ownership structure’, Journal of Financial Economics 3: 305–60.
Jensen, M. C. and Murphy, K. J. 1990. ‘Performance pay and top-management incentives’,
The Journal of Political Economy 98: 225–64.
Johnson-Calari, J. and Rietveld, M. 2007. Sovereign wealth management. London: Central
Banking Publications.
Jorion, P. (ed.) 2003. Financial risk manager handbook. 2nd edn. Hoboken: Wiley.
2006. Value-at-Risk: The new benchmark for managing ﬁnancial risk. 2nd edn. New York:
McGraw-Hill.
Kahn, R. N. 1998. ‘Bond managers need to take more risk’, Journal of Portfolio Manage-
ment 24(3): 70–6.
Kalkbrener, M. and Willing, J. 2004. ‘Risk management of non-maturing liabilities’, Journal
of Banking & Finance 28: 1547–68.
Kang, J. C. and Chen, A. H. 2002. ‘Evidence on theta and convexity in Treasury returns’,
Journal of Fixed Income 12: 41–50.
Karnosky, D. S. and Singer, B. D. 1994. Global asset management and performance attri-
bution. Charlottesville: The Research Foundation of the Institute of Chartered
Financial Analysts.
Katz, M. L. and Shapiro, C. 1985. ‘Network externalities, competition, and compatibility’,
American Economic Review 75: 424–40.
Kilian, L. and Manganelli, S. 2003. ‘The central bank as a risk manager, qualifying and
forecasting inﬂation risks’, ECB Working Paper Series 226.
Kim, C-J and Nelson, C. R. 1999. State Space Models with Regime Switching. Cambridge (MA):
The MIT Press.
King, W. T. C. 1936. History of the London discount market. London: Frank Cass.
500
References

--- Página 529 ---
Kirievsky, L. and Kirievsky, A. 2000. ‘Attribution analysis: Combining attribution effects over
time’, Journal of Performance Measurement 4(4): 49–59.
Koivu, M., Nyholm, K. and Stromberg, J. 2007. ‘The yield curve and macro fundamentals in
forecasting exchange rates’, The Journal of Financial Forecasting 1(2): 63–83.
Kophamel, A. 2003. ‘Risk-adjusted performance attribution – A new paradigm for per-
formance analysis’, Journal of Performance Measurement 7(4): 51–62.
Kreinin, A. and Sidelnikova, M. 2001. ‘Regularization algorithms for transition matrices’,
Algo Research Quarterly 4(1/2): 23–40.
Krishnamurthi, C. 2004. ‘Fixed income risk attribution’, RiskMetrics Journal 5(1): 5–19.
Krokhmal, P., Palmquist, J. and Uryasev, S. 2002. ‘Portfolio optimization with conditional
Value-at-Risk objective and constraints’, The Journal of Risk 4(2): 11–27.
Kyle, A. S. 1985. ‘Continuous auctions and insider trading’, Econometrica 53: 1315–35.
L’Ecuyer, P. 2004. ‘Quasi-Monte Carlo methods in ﬁnance’, in R. G. Ingalls, M. D. Rossetti,
J. S. Smith, and B. A. Peters (eds.), Proceedings of the 2004 Winter Simulation Conference.
Piscataway: IEEE Press, pp. 1645–55.
L’Ecuyer, P., and Lemieux, C. 2002. ‘Recent advances in randomised quasi-Monte Carlo
methods’, in M. Dror, P. L’Ecuyer, and F. Szidarovszki (eds.), Modeling uncertainty: An
examination of stochastic theory, methods, and applications. Boston: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, pp. 419–74.
Laker, D. 2003. ‘Karnosky Singer attribution: A worked example’, Barra Inc. Working Paper,
www.mscibarra.com/research/article.jsp?id¼303.
2005. ‘Multicurrency attribution: Not as easy as it looks!’, JASSA 2: 2005.
Lando, D. 2004. Credit risk modeling: Theory and applications. Princeton: Princeton Uni-
versity Press.
Lando, D. and Skødeberg, T. M. 2002. ‘Analysing rating transitions and rating drift with
continuous observations’, Journal of Banking & Finance 26: 481–523.
Laurens, B. 2005. ‘Monetary policy Implementation at different stages of market devel-
opment’, IMF Occasional Papers 244.
Lehmann, B. and Modest, D. 1987. ‘Mutual fund performance evaluation: A comparison of
benchmarks and benchmark comparisons’, Journal of Finance 42: 233–65.
Leibowitz M.L., Bader L.N. and Kogelman S. 1995. Return targets and shortfall risks: studies in
strategic asset allocation. Chicago: Irwin Professional Publishing.
Leone, A. 1993. ‘Institutional aspects of central bank losses’, IMF Paper on Policy Analysis
and Assessment 93/14.
Lintner, J. 1965. ‘The valuation of risk assets and the selection of risky investments in stock
portfolios and capital budgets’, Review of Economics and Statistics 47: 13–37.
Linzert, T., Nautz. D. and Bindseil, U. 2007. ‘Bidding behavior in the longer term reﬁnancing
operations of the European Central Bank: Evidence from a panel sample selection
model’, Journal of Banking and Finance 31: 1521–43.
Litterman, R. 2003. Modern investment management: An equilibrium approach. New York:
Wiley.
Litterman, R. and Scheinkman, J. 1991. ‘Common factors affecting bond returns’, Journal of
Fixed Income 1: 54–61.
Loeys, J. and Coughlan, G. 1999. ‘How much credit?’, JPMorgan, www.jpmorgan.com.
501
References

--- Página 530 ---
Lo¨fﬂer, G. 2005. ‘Avoiding the rating bounce: Why rating agencies are slow to react to new
information’, Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 56(3): 365–81.
Lopez, A. J. 2002. ‘The empirical relationship between average asset correlation, ﬁrm
probability of default and asset size’, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Working
Paper Series 2002/05.
Lord, T. J. 1997. ‘The attribution of portfolio and index returns in ﬁxed income’, Journal of
Performance Measurement 2(1): 45–57.
Lucas, D. 2004. ‘Default correlation: from deﬁnition to proposed solutions’, UBS CDO
Research, www.defaultrisk.com/pp_corr_65.htm.
Manning, M. J. and Willision, M. D. 2006. ‘Modelling the cross-border use of collateral in
payment and settlement systems’, Bank of England Working Paper 286.
Markowitz, H. 1952. ‘Portfolio selection’, Journal of Finance 7(1): 77–91.
Markowitz, H. M. 1959. Portfolio selection: efﬁcient diversiﬁcation of investment, New York:
Wiley.
Marshall, C. 2001. Measuring and managing operational risks in ﬁnancial institutions. New
York: Wiley.
Martellini, L., Priaulet, P. and Priaulet, S. 2004. Fixed-income securities. Chichester: Wiley.
Martı´nez-Resano, R. J. 2004. ‘Central bank ﬁnancial independence’, Banco de Espan˜a
Occasional Papers 04/01.
Mausser, H. and Rosen, D. 2007. ‘Economic credit capital allocation and risk contributions’,
in J. Birge and V. Linetsky (eds.), Handbooks in operations research and management
science: Financial engineering. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science, 681–725.
Meese, R. A., and Rogoff, K. 1983. ‘Empirical exchange rate models of the seventies: Do they
ﬁt out of sample?’, Journal of International Economics 14: 3–24.
Menchero, J. G. 2000a. ‘An optimized approach to linking attribution effects’, Journal of
Performance Measurement 5(1): 36–42.
2000b. ‘A fully geometric approach to performance measurement’, Journal of Performance
Measurement 5(2): 22–30.
2004. ‘Multiperiod arithmetic attribution’, Financial Analysts Journal 60(4): 76–91.
Merton, R. C. 1973. ‘The theory of rational option pricing’, Bell Journal of Economics and
Management Science 4: 141–83.
1974. ‘On the pricing of corporate debt: the risk structure of interest rates’, Journal of
Finance 29(2): 449–70.
Meucci, A. 2005. Risk and asset allocation. Berlin, Heidelberg, New York: Springer-Verlag.
Michaud, R. 1989. ‘The Markowitz optimization enigma: Is optimized optimal?’, Financial
Analyst Journal 45: 31–42.
1998. Efﬁcient asset management: A practical guide to stock portfolio optimization and asset
selection. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.
Mina, J. 2002. ‘Risk attribution for asset manager’, RiskMetrics Journal 3(2): 33–55.
Mina, J. and Xiao, Y. (2001), ‘Return to RiskMetrics: The Evolution of a Standard’. RiskMetrics.
Mirabelli, A. 2000. ‘The structure and visualization of performance attribution’, Journal of
Performance Measurement 5(2): 55–80.
Moody’s 2004. ‘Recent bank loan research: implications for Moody’s bank loan rating
practices’, Moody’s Investors Service Global Credit Research report 12/2004, www.
moodys.com.
502
References

--- Página 531 ---
2003. ‘Measuring the performance of corporate bond ratings’, Moody’s Special Comment
04/2003, www.moodys.com.
Moskowitz, B. and Caﬂisch, R. E. 1996. ‘Smoothness and dimension reduction in quasi-
Monte Carlo methods’, Journal of Mathematical and Computer Modeling 23: 37–54.
Mossin, J. 1966. ‘Equilibrium in a capital asset market’, Econometrica 34(4): 768–83.
Murira, B. and Sierra, H. 2006. ‘Fixed income attribution, a uniﬁed framework – part I’,
Journal of Performance Measurement 11(1): 23–35.
Myerson, R. 1991. Game Theory. Cambridge (MA): Harvard University Press.
Myerson, R. and Satterthwaite, M. A. 1983. ‘Efﬁcient mechanisms for bilateral trading’,
Journal of Economic Theory 29: 265–81.
Nelson, C. R. and Siegel, A. F. 1987. ‘A parsimonious modeling of yield curves’, Journal of
Business 60: 473–89.
Nesterov, Y. 2004. Introductory lectures on convex optimization: A basic course. Boston: Kluwer
Academic Publishers.
Nickell, P., Perraudin, W. and Varotto, S. 2000. ‘Stability of rating transitions’, Journal of
Banking & Finance 24: 203–27.
Niederreiter, H. 1992. Random number generation and quasi-Monte Carlo methods. Phila-
delphia: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.
Nuge´e, J. 2000. Foreign exchange reserves management. Handbooks in Central Banking vol.
19. London: Bank of England Centre for Central Banking Studies.
Obeid, A. 2004. Performance-Analyse von Spezialfonds – Externe und interne Performance-
Mabe in der praktischen Anwendung. Bad Soden/Taunus: Uhlenbruch.
OECD. See Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Ofﬁce of Government Commerce. 1999. Procurement excellence – A guide to using the EFQM
excellence model in procurement. London: Ofﬁce of Government Commerce, www.ogc.
gov.uk/documents/Procurement_Excellence_Guide.pdf.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 2004. ‘Principles of corporate
governance, revised’, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 04/2004.
Pﬂug, G. 2000. ‘Some remarks on the value-at-risk and the conditional value-at-risk’, in
S. Uryasev (ed.), Probabilistic constrained optimization: Methodology and applications.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 272–81.
Pluto, K. and Tasche, D. 2006. ‘Estimating probabilities of default for low default portfolios’,
in B. Engelmann and R. Rauhmeier (eds.), The Basel II risk parameters. Berlin: Springer-
Verlag, 79–103.
Poole, W. 1968. ‘Commercial bank reserve management in a stochastic model: Implications
for monetary policy’, Journal of Finance 23: 769–91.
Pringle, R. and Carver, N. (eds.) 2003. How countries manage reserve assets. London: Central
Banking Publications.
2005. ‘Trends in reserve management – Survey results’, in R. Pringle, and N. Carver (eds.),
RBS Reserve management trends 2005. London: Central Banking Publications, 1–27.
2007. RBS reserve management trends 2007. London: Central Banking Publications.
Project Management Institute. 2004. A guide to the project management body of knowledge
(PMBOK Guide). Pennsylvania: PMI Inc.
Putnam, B. H. 2004. ‘Thoughts on investment guidelines for institutions with special liquidity
and capital preservation requirements’ in C. Bernadell, P. Cardon, J. Coche, F. X. Diebold
503
References

--- Página 532 ---
and S. Manganelli (eds.), Risk Management for central bank foreign reserves. Frankfurt am
Main: European Central Bank, chapter 2.
Ramaswamy, S. 2001. ‘Fixed income portfolio management: Risk modeling, portfolio con-
struction and performance attribution’, Journal of Performance Measurement 5(4): 58–70.
2004a. Managing credit risk in corporate bond portfolios: a practitioner’s guide. Hoboken:
Wiley.
2004b. ‘Setting counterparty credit limits for the reserves portfolio’ in C. Bernadell,
P. Cardon, J. Coche, F. X. Diebold and S. Manganelli (eds.), Risk management for central
bank foreign reserves. Frankfurt am Main: European Central Bank, chapter 10.
2005. ‘Simulated credit loss distribution: Can we rely on it?’, The Journal of Portfolio
Management 31(4): 91–9.
Reichsbank. 1910. The Reichsbank 1876–1900. Translation edited by the National Monetary
Commission. Washington: Government Printing Ofﬁce.
Reitano, R. R. 1991. ‘Multivariate duration analysis’, Transactions of the Society of Actuaries
43: 335–92.
Repullo, R. 2000. ‘Who should act as lender of last resort: an incomplete contracts model’,
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking 32(3): 580–605.
RiskMetrics Group 2006. ‘The RiskMetrics 2006 methodology’, www.riskmetrics.com.
Roberts, J. 2004. The modern ﬁrm: organizational design for performance and growth. Oxford
and New York: Oxford University Press.
Rockafellar, R. T. and Uryasev, S. 2000. ‘Optimization of conditional value-at-risk’, The
Journal of Risk 2(3): 21–41.
2002. ‘Conditional Value-at-Risk for general loss distributions’, Journal of Banking &
Finance 26: 1443–71.
Rodrik, D. 2006. ‘The social costs of foreign exchange reserves’, NBER Working Paper 11952.
Rogers, C. 2004. ‘Risk management practices at the ECB’, in C. Bernadell, P. Cardon, J.
Coche, F. X. Diebold and S. Manganelli (eds.), Risk management for central bank foreign
reserves. Frankfurt am Main: European Central Bank, chapter 15.
Ross, S. 1976. ‘The arbitrage theory of capital asset pricing’, Journal of Economic Theory 13:
341–60.
Saarenheimo, T. 2005. ‘Ageing, interest rates, and ﬁnancial ﬂows’, Bank of Finland Research
Discussion Paper 2/2005.
Samad-Khan, A. 2005. ‘Why COSO is ﬂawed’, Operational Risk 01/2005: 24–8.
2006a. ‘Fundamental issues in OpRisk management’, OpRisk & compliance 02/2006: 27–9.
2006b. ‘Uses and misuses of loss data’, Global association of risk professionals [risk review]
05–06/2006: 18–22.
Sangmanee, A. and Raengkhum, J. 2000. ‘A general concept of central bank wide risk
management’, in S. F. Frowen, R. Pringle and B. Weller (eds.), Risk management for
central bankers. London: Central Banking Publications.
Satchell, S. 2007. Forecasting expected returns in the ﬁnancial markets. Oxford: Academic Press
Elsevier.
Saunders, A. and Allen, L. 2002. Credit risk measurement: new approaches to value at risk and
other paradigms. 2nd edn. New York: Wiley.
Sayers, R. S. 1976. The Bank of England, 1891–1944. 2 vols. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
504
References

--- Página 533 ---
Scherer, B. 2002. Portfolio construction and risk budgeting. London: Risk Books.
Scobie, H. M. and Cagliesi, G. 2000. Reserve management. London: Risk Books.
Sentana, E. 2003. ‘Mean-variance portfolio allocation with a Value at Risk constraint’, Revista
de Economı´a Financiera 1: 4–14.
Sharpe, W. 1991. ‘The arithmetics of active management’, Financial Analysts Journal 47: 7–9.
Sharpe, W. F. 1964. ‘Capital asset prices: A theory of market equilibrium under conditions of
risk’, Journal of Finance 19(3): 425–42.
1966. ‘Mutual fund performance’, Journal of Business 39(1): 119–38.
1994. ‘The Sharpe ratio’, Journal of Portfolio Management 21(1): 49–58.
Shefrin, H. 2007. Behavioral corporate ﬁnance: decisions that create value. Boston: McGraw
Hill/Irvin.
Smith, C. and Stulz, R. M. 1985. ‘The determinants of a ﬁrm’s hedging policies’, Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis 20: 391–406.
Sobol, I. M. 1967. ‘The distribution of points in a cube and the approximate evaluation of
integrals’, U.S.S.R. Journal of Computational Mathematics and Mathematical Physics
7: 86–112.
Spaulding, D. 1997. Measuring investment performance. New York: McGraw-Hill.
2003. Investment performance attribution. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Standard & Poor’s. 2006. ‘Annual 2005 global corporate default study and rating transitions’,
www.ratingsdirect.com.
Standard & Poor’s. 2008a. ‘2007 Annual global corporate default study and rating tran-
sitions’,www.standardandpoors.com/ratingsdirect.
2008b. ‘Sovereign defaults and rating transition data: 2007 update’, www.standardand-
poors.com/ratingsdirect.
Standards Australia. 2004. Risk management. AS/NZS 4360. East Perth: Standards Australia.
Stella, P. 1997. ‘Do central banks need capital?’, IMF Working Paper 83.
2002. ‘Central bank ﬁnancial strength, transparency, and policy credibility’, IMF Working
Paper 137.
2003. ‘Why central banks need ﬁnancial strength’, Central Banking 14(2): 23–9.
Stulz, R. M. 2003. Risk management and derivatives. Cincinnati: South-Western.
Summers, L. H. 2007. ‘Opportunities in an era of large and growing ofﬁcial wealth’, in
Johnson-Calari and Rietveld, pp. 15–28.
Svensson, L. E. 1994. ‘Estimating and interpreting forward interest rates: Sweden 1992–1994’,
IWF Working Paper 114.
Sveriges Riksbank. 2003. ‘The Riksbank’s role as lender of last resort’, Financial Stability
Report 2/2003: 57–73.
Tabakis, E. and Vinci, A. 2002. ‘Analysing and combining multiple credit assessments of
ﬁnancial institutions’, ECB Working Paper 123.
Task Force of the Market Operations Committee of the European System of Central Banks.
2007. ‘The use of portfolio credit risk models in central banks’, ECB Occasional Paper
Series 64.
Thornton, H. 1802. An inquiry into the nature and effects of paper credit of Great Britain. New
York: Kelley.
Treynor, J. L. 1962. ‘Toward a theory of market value of risky assets’, unpublished manu-
script. A ﬁnal version was published in 1999, in Robert A. Korajczyk (ed.) Asset pricing
505
References

--- Página 534 ---
and portfolio performance: Models, strategy and performance metrics. London: Risk
Books, 15–22.
1965. ‘How to rate management of investment funds’, Harvard Business Review 43: 63–75.
1987. ‘The economics of the dealer function’, Financial Analysts Journal 43(6): 27–34.
Treynor, J. L. and Black, F. 1973. ‘How to use security analysis to improve portfolio
selection’, Journal of Business 1: 61–86.
U.S. Department of Homeland Security. 2003. Reference manual to mitigate potential terrorist
attacks against buildings. Washington (DC): Federal Emergency Management Asso-
ciation, www.fema.gov/pdf/plan/prevent/rms/426/fema426.pdf.
Van Breukelen, G. 2000. ‘Fixed income attribution’, Journal of Performance Measurement
4(4): 61–8.
Varma, P., Cantor, R. and Hamilton, D. 2003. ‘Recovery rates on defaulted corporate bonds
and preferred stocks, 1982–2003’, Moody’s Investors Service, www.moodys.com
Vasicek, O. A. 1977. ‘An equilibrium characterization of the term structure’, Journal of
Financial Economics 5: 177–88.
1991. ‘Limiting loan loss probability distribution’, KMV Corporation, www.kmv.com.
Wilkens, M., Baule, R. and Entrop, O., 2001. ‘Basel II – Beru¨cksichtigung von Diversiﬁka-
tionseffekten im Kreditportfolio durch das granularity adjustment’, Zeitschrift fu¨r das
gesamte Kreditwesen 12/2001: 20–6.
Williamson, O. E. 1985. The economic institutions of capitalism. New York: The Free Press.
Willner, R. 1996. ‘A new tool for portfolio managers: Level, slope and curvature durations’,
Journal of Fixed Income 6: 48–59.
Wittrock, C. 2000. Messung und Analyse der Performance von Wertpapierportfolios 3rd edn.
Bad Soden/Taunus: Uhlenbruch.
Wong, C. 2003. ‘Attribution – arithmetic or geometric? The best of both worlds’, Journal of
Performance Measurement 8(2): 10–8.
Woodford, M. 2001. ‘Monetary policy in the information economy’, NBER Working Paper
Series 8674.
2003. Interest and Prices: Foundations of a Theory of Monetary Policy. Princeton: Princeton
University Press.
Wooldridge, P. D. 2006. ‘The changing composition of ofﬁcial reserves’, BIS Quarterly
Review 09/2006: 25–38.
506
References

--- Página 535 ---
Index
accountability
active portfolio management, and, 27
collateral frameworks, and, 344
lending without collateral, and, 272
public institutional investors, and, 5
risk management functions, and, 451
strategic asset allocation, in, 72
active portfolio management
academic studies of, 23
additional costs, 23
competitive equilibrium, as part of, 24
discovering arbitrages, 25
diversifiable risk, cost of, 23
diversification, and, 25
industrial organisation, 23
make or buy decision, 26
mixed portfolios, 26
outsourcing, 27
portfolio management firms, nature of, 26
portfolio management industry, 25
public institutions, by, 23
qualities of managers, 24
types of funds, 25
usefulness of, 23
Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), 446
alpha strategies, 219
application service providers (ASPs), 206
Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT), 71, 224
asset-backed securities (ABS), 349
asset-liability management (ALM) framework, 57–8
backdated transactions, 186
Banco de Espan˜a
credit assessment system, 310
bank loans
collateral, as, 352
Bank of Japan
collateral framework, 341
credit assessment system, 311
banknotes
central bank profitability, and, 30
central banks’ capital, and, 36
denominations in circulation, 31
liquidation risk, and, 31
potential future decline of, 30
risks relating to, 31
seignorage, and, 31
withdrawal of right to issue, implications, 39
Banque de France
credit assessment system, 310
Basel Accord
bank capital, and, 34
Basel Committee for Banking Supervision
(BCBS), 446
benchmark portfolios, 158
Business Process Management (BPM)
operational risk management compared, 481
capital asset pricing model (CAPM), 18
multi-factor return decomposition models,
and, 224
risk-adjusted performance measures, and, 213
strategic asset allocation, and, 49
Capital Market Line (CML), 59
central banks
active investors, as, 26
agent of the people, as, 6
ALM approaches, 58
capital, role of, 34–41
collateral frameworks, see collateral
frameworks
conservative nature of, 118
credit assessment systems, 309
credit losses, 30
credit risk and, 118
currency appreciation, and, 14
currency risk, and, 119
derivatives, use of, 22
development of market intelligence, and, 9
diversification of portfolios, 10, 21, 118
excess reserves, and, 14
exposure to credit risk, 117
507

--- Página 536 ---
central banks (cont.)
financial crisis management, 34, see Financial
crisis management
financial institution, as, 444
firm, as, 445
foreign exchange policies and reserves, 13, 14,
30, 33
FX markets, and, 90
FX valuation changes, 30
implicit capital, 8
independence of, 8
inflationary policies, and, 41
insider information, and, 9
investment horizon, 70
investment universe of, 117
lending without collateral, 272
operational risk management, see Operational
risk management
policy related risk factors, 29–34
policy tasks, 10–17
price stability, and, 35
profitability problems, 38
real bills doctrine, 12
reserves, growth of, 119
risk types, 15
segregation of domestic assets, 12
sterilising excess liquidity, 30
supply of deposits, 12
threats to profitability, 29
transparency, and, 8
withdrawal of right to issue currency, 39
Chinese walls, 9
meaning, 450
role of risk management, and, 450
collateral
assessment of compliance with eligibility
criteria, 352
asset types, 273
assessment of credit quality, 275, 305, 307–15
availability, 415
available amounts, 276
cash collateral, 279
central bank operations, for, 295
collateral eligibility, 279
collateralization, best practice, 280
cost-benefit analysis of, 284–300
counterparties, choice of, 345
credit risk assessment, 353–7
creditworthiness, 343
cross-border use of, 431
cut-off line, 274
distortions to asset prices, 344
easy pricing, 276
eligibility criteria, 348
Eurosystem approach, 277
frameworks compared, 342–8
haircut determination methods, 318
haircuts, 280
handling costs, 274, 276
inter-bank repurchase markets, for, 295
inter-bank transactions, 279
legal certainty, 275
limits, 337
liquidity, 276
marking to market, 315
mitigation of credit risk, and, 304
monitoring, 274
monitoring use of, 282
ranking of collateral types, 274
transparency and accountability, 344
type and quantity of, 343
valuation, 315
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission, 448
compliance monitoring and reporting, 157
limits, and, 179
concentration, 142, 151
concentration risks 368–74
conditional forecasting
strategic asset allocation, and, 75
corner solutions, 68
corporate governance
structure, 447
counterparty borrowing limits
collateral, and, 356
counterparty Risk Management Policy Group II,
447
credibility
reputation risk, and, 7
credit derivatives
growth of market, 119
credit instruments
rate of return on, 119
credit rating agencies
criticisms of, 124
ECB use of, 174
credit rating tools (RTs)
collateral credit quality, and, 313
credit risk
assessment, 353–7
credit risk, definition, 117
currency risk, and, 119
data limitations, 122
default, and, 120
diversification of risk, 121
liquidity and security, and, 120
market risk models compared, 122
meaning, 303
508
Index

--- Página 537 ---
measuring risk, 119
mitigating, 303
mitigation of downside risk, 120
nature of risk, 117
pay off of credit instruments, 120
resource implications of investment, 120
return distribution of credit instruments, 122
return on investment grade credit, 119
credit risk modelling, 117–74
ECB’s approach, 122–42
asset correlation, 141
equity returns, 141
simulating, 360–6
simulation results, 142–52
validation of models, 145
sources of risk, 117
credit spreads
“credit spread puzzle”, 120
determinants of, 120
ECB credit risk model, and, 142
idiosyncratic risk, and, 121
limits of diversification, and, 121
currency risk, 119
data transfer infrastructure, 197
debt securities
foreign official institutions holding, 118
decision support framework
strategic asset allocation, and, 72
deflation
interest rates, and, 22
derivatives
central banks, and, 22
Deutsche Bundesbank
credit assessment system, 310
diversification
active portfolio management, and, 25
central banks, by, 10
corner solutions, and, 68
credit risk, 19, 121
limitations of, 121
optimal degree of, 17
emergency liquidity assistance (ELA), 394
enterprise risk system, 198
equity
central banks, and, 22
euro corporate bond market
financials, and, 121
European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD), 117
European Central Bank (ECB)
approach to performance attribution, 257–67
benchmarks structure, 160
collateral framework, 341
credit limits, 173
credit risk modelling, approach to, 122–42
credit risk, and, 118
distribution of reports, 191
foreign currency assets, 165
foreign reserves, 160
investment framework and benchmarks, 160
investment portfolios, 159
investment process, 161
investment process, components of, 68–74
key risk indicators (KRIs), use of, 485
market risk control framework, 165
operational risk management framework, 462
performance measurement, 219–21
portfolio management, 159–61
tasks of, 6, 11
reporting for investment operations, 193
strategic asset allocation, and, 52
European Investment Bank (EIB), 117
Eurosystem, 159
governance of, 159
Eurosystem Credit Assessment Framework
(ECAF), 308, 313
performance monitoring framework, 315
excess reserves
definition, 14
Federal Reserve
Qualified Loan Review (QLR) program, 312
Federal Reserve Board
collateral framework, 341
financial crisis management, 394–438
aggregate excess liquidity injection, 397
availability of collateral, 416
central bank borrowing facility, 417
central bank operational framework, role, 416
central bank’s ability to secure claims, 405
constructive ambiguity, 411
cross-border use of collateral, 431
ELA provided by other banks, 407
emergency liquidity injections, 422
emergency solvency assistance, 398
end-of-day borrowing facility, 417
equal access measures, 396, 420–32
individual access measures, 398
individual banks measures, 432–5
inertia principle, 418
intra-day payment system, 417
key lessons from 19th century, 399
moral hazard, 406
motivations for, 403
narrowing spread of borrowing facility, 427
negative externalities of illiquidity, 403
509
Index

--- Página 538 ---
financial crisis management (cont.)
reserve requirements, 418
risk taking, and, 34
special lending, rate of provision, 414
special liquidity supplying operations, 397
spread of borrowing facility, 397
superior knowledge of central bank, 405
swap operations, 431
typology of measures, 396–9
widening of collateral set, 397, 428
fixed set up costs
diversification, and, 19
fixed-income performance attribution models, 249
Foreign Exchange Counterparty Database
(FXCD), 201
foreign exchange rate policies
implementation, 13
foreign exchange rates
central banks’ policy, and, 33
modelling, 86
risk integration, 57
costs of holding, 33
foreign reserves
ALM, and, 58
best practice for, 33, 448
currency composition of, 22
growth in, 13
social welfare, and, 6
sovereign bonds, investment in, 21
US policy on, 14
global investment performance standards (GIPS),
208
gold reserves
foreign reserves, and, 22
governance structures
asset allocation, and, 69
government bonds
fixed income securities, and, 18
liquidity of, 282
government paper
excessive purchases of, 9
government securities
collateral frameworks, and, 344
public institutional investors, and, 5
haircuts, 306–33
average issue size, 329
basic VaR related haircuts, 321
bid-ask spread, 330
credit risk adjusted haircuts, 333
defining liquidity categories, 331
determination methods, 318
effective supply, 329
liquidity risk adjusted haircuts, 323–33
headline risk, 7
hedge funds
diversification, and, 25
independence
central banks, of, 7
index selection, 58
inertia principle
financial crisis management, 417
inflation
banknotes in circulation, and, 33
benchmark rates of, 33
interest rates, and, 32
insider information
central banks, and, 9, 450
insolvency
role of capital, and, 34
integrated risk management, 41–7
best practice, 41
business activities, 43
business model, 42
complete list of risk factors, 46
consistent risk measures, 47
distorted allocations of risk budget, 47
efficient frontier, 42
franchise capital, 44
parameters of risk control framework, 47
policy handbook, 46
profit-loss asymmetries, 45
public investors, for, 43–7
reputation risks, 45
risk budgets, 42
risk factors, 42
risk return preferences, 44
scenario analysis, 47
segregation of risk management, 46
social welfare, and, 46
sources of risk aversion, 44
taxation, 42
interest rates
central banks’ inside information, and, 9
deflation, and, 32
real, 33
setting, 12, 32
internal ratings based (IRB) system, 311, 446
International Monetary Fund (IMF)
strategic asset allocation, and, 52
international Operating Working Group
(IORWG), 460
investment horizon
strategic asset allocation, and, 70
ISDA’s Guidelines for Collateral Practitioners
collateralization, and, 280
510
Index

--- Página 539 ---
IT
applications, 200
architecture and standards, 197
build or buy, 204–6
data transfer infrastructure, 197
development support, 200
enterprise risk system, 198
integrated risk management system, 197
outsourcing, 206
application service provider solutions, 206
projects, 203
reporting infrastructure, 198
risk data warehouse, 198
risk management IT team, 199
risk management, and, 196
systems support and operations, 199
Key Risk Indicators (KRIs)
operational risk management, and, 485
lender of last resort (LOLR), 394
limits
risk mitigation tool, as, 337
liquidation risk
banknotes, and, 31
liquidity risk, 20
banknotes, and, 31
meaning, 176
liquidity-related risks
simulating, 366
maintenance costs
diversification, and, 19
market intelligence
central banks, and, 9, 27
market risk, 118
composition of, 162
definition, 162
ECB control framework, see European Central
Bank
measurement, 164
marking to market, 306
collateral valuation, and, 315
Markowitz portfolio optimization model, 68
Matlab, 202
mean-variance portfolio theory, 58
modern Portfolio Theory, 58
monetary policy
implementation, 12, 272
operations, 35
inter, 32
Monte Carlo method
credit risk estimation, 379
empirical results on variance reduction, 384
importance sampling, 380
Quasi-Monte Carlo methods, 382
multi-factor return decomposition models,
224–8
Arbitrage Pricing Theory, 224
choice of risk factors, 226
parameterizing, 226
multi-factor return decomposition models
empirical multi-factor models, 227
non-alienable risks, 20
Oesterreichische Nationalbank
credit assessment system, 311
open market operations (OMOs)
emergency liquidity injections through, 422
operational risk management, 460
active benchmarking initiatives, 462
bottom up self-assessments, 479
central bank specific challenges, 463–5
ECB framework, 462
ECB governance model, 479
governance of, 483
inherent risk vs worst case scenario, 467
International Operating Working Group
(IORWG), 460
KRIs and, 484
lifecycle of, 471
likelihood/impact matrix, 467
normal business conditions vs worst case
scenarios, 466
operational risk, definition, 465–8
overarching framework, as, 468
reporting, 484
risk as distribution, 466
risk impact grading scale, 473
risk tolerance guidelines, 474
taxonomy of operational risk, 469, 470
tolerance policy, 472
top down self-assessments, 476–9
optimization, 58
outsourcing
active portfolio management, 27
passive portfolio management
definition, 18
payment systems
unrenumerated liabilities, and, 11
performance attribution, 222–68
active investment decision process, and, 242
Arbitrage Pricing Theory, 224
performance attribution modelling, 223
ECB approach to, 257–67
fixed income portfolios, 228–41
511
Index

--- Página 540 ---
performance attribution (cont.)
fixed-income performance attribution analysis,
223
fixed-income performance attribution models,
241–57
multi-factor return decomposition models, see
Multi-factor return decomposition models
prime objective, 222
range of performance determinants, 242
return-driving risk factors, 223
single period/multiple periods, 243
tailored reports, 242
performance measurement, 207
active performance, 217
active positions, and, 208
benchmark portfolios, 207
Capital Asset Pricing Model, 213
ECB, at, 219–21
extension to value-at-risk, 216
GIPS requirements, 220
information ratio, 217, 220
literature on, 208
passive performance, 215
performance analysis, meaning, 207
reward-to-VaR ratio, 216, 220
risk-adjusted performance measures, 213–19
rules for return calculation, 208–13
Sharpe ratio, 214, 220
total performance, 214
Treynor ratio, 215, 220
private information
diversification, and, 19
public institutional investors
‘big’ investors, as, 10
accountability and transparency, 5
active investors, as, 26
active portfolio management, 6, 9, 21, 23
credibility, and, 7
diversification of assets, 19–24
foreknowledge, 6
governance standards, and, 7
Government securities, and, 5
headline risk, 7
importance of, 3
independence, and, 7
industry failures, and, 17
investors’ preferences, and, 5
large implicit economic capital, and, 8
market intelligence, 9, 27
non-alienable risks, 20
normative theory of investment behaviour, 3
organisational flexibility, 4
outsourcing active management, 27
passive portfolio management, 18
payments to owners, and, 6
portfolio managers, 5
private sector techniques, and, 7
remoteness of activities, 8
reputation risk, 20
risk aversion, and, 17
share of equity, 18
social welfare, and, 6, 27
transparency and accountability, and, 27
Quasi-Monte Carlo methods, 382
rating methodologies, 168
ratings
limitations of, 124
rating aggregation, 169
real bills doctrine, 12
repo portfolios
concentration risks, 368
Credit Value-at-Risk, 376
expected shortfall, 376
liquidity-related risks, simulating, 366
Monte Carlo method, 379
residual risk estimation, 387
risk measurement for, 359–93
simulating credit risk, 360
reporting
accuracy, 190
availability of necessary data, 191
delivery of, 191
ECB investment operations, for, 193
framework for, 190
IT infrastructure, 198
level of detail, 190
objectivity and fairness, 190
operational risk management, for, 484
portfolio managers, 189
risk and performance, on, 189
timeliness, 190
repurchase transactions
cash leg, 303
collateral leg, 304
credit risk, 304
market and liquidity risk, 304
reputation risk
credit exposures, and, 45
definition, 7
integrated risk management, and, 45
non-alienable risk factor, as, 20
public institutions, and, 7
quantifying, 45
transparency, and, 8
residential mortgages
funding of in Europe, 348
512
Index

--- Página 541 ---
residual risk estimation
credit quality of issuers and counterparties, 390
Eurosystem credit operations, for, 387–92
expected shortfall in base case scenario, 388
liquidity time assumptions, 389
return calculation
rules for, 208–13
risk control framework, 157–206, 306, 317, 331,
339, 353, 357
aim of, 157
coherence of, 162
components of, 157
credit risk limits, 166
defining limits, 161
ECB’s credit limits, 173
enforcement of, 157
exposure calculation, 172
factors driving relevant industries, 169
inputs to limit setting formulas, 167
internal credit rating system, 169
limit compliance monitoring, 179
limits, 161–78
liquidity limits, 176
market measures of credit risk, monitoring, 169
market risk limits, 162
rating methodologies, 168
risk and performance reporting, 189
strategic benchmarks, maintenance of, 188
validation of prices transacted at, 182
valuation at end of day prices, 181
risk data-warehouse, 198
Risk Engine, 201
risk management, 271
accountability, 451
adequacy of resources, 454
Basel Committee for Banking Supervision, 446
best practices, 445–8
central banks’, 3
Chinese wall principle, 450
corporate governance structure, 447
divisional responsibilities, 455
independence, and, 448
interest rate risk, 446
internal control systems, 447
middle office functions, 455
monetary policy operations, 271, 455
operational risks, 457
organizational issues, 443, 444
relevance of in central banks, 444
risk management culture, 457
strategic level of decisions, 455
supervisory process, 446
transparency, 451
risk mitigation techniques, 277
haircuts, 278
limits, 278
valuation and margin calls, 277
risk-adjusted performance measures, 213–19
RiskMetrics, 166
RiskMetrics RiskManager, 202
semi-passive portfolio management, 208
Sharpe ratio, 214
short selling, 64
spreadsheets, 202
static data
maintenance of, 187
strategic asset allocation, 49–116
active portfolio management, 55
aims, 49
application of, 99–116
benchmark allocation, 75
benchmark process, 52
calculation of returns, 87
Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM),
and, 49
Capital Market Line (CML), 59
conditional forecasting, 75
corner solutions, 68
credit risk modelling, and, 123
decision support framework, 58
degrees of complexity, 54
delegation of responsibilities, 53
discretization, 95
ECB investment process, 68–74
foreign reserve holdings, 91
IMF guidelines, 51
index selection, 58
integration of different risks, 57
internalization of process, 54
investment horizon, 54
investment universe, 99
investors’ expectations, 63
length of investment horizons, 63
level of liquidity, 53
macro economic scenarios, 104
macro model for multiple currency areas, 77
macro-economic variables, 75
mean-variance portfolio theory, 58
model for credit migrations, 83
modelling exchange rates, 86
multi-currency model, 93
non-normal scenario, to, 111
normative considerations, 51
objective function and constraints, 100
optimal portfolio allocations, 109
optimization models for shortfall approach,
89–98
513
Index

--- Página 542 ---
strategic asset allocation (cont.)
portfolio optimization, 51, 58–68
return distributions, 64
short selling, 64
single market model, 97
starting yield curves, 104
stochastic factors, modelling, 75–89
strategic benchmark, 52
utility functions, 63
viewbuilding, 56
yield curve model, 80
yield curve projections and expected returns,
105
sub-prime turmoil 2007, 297
taxation
integrated risk management, and, 42
time-weighted rate of return (TWRR), 209
tolerance bands
ECB calculation of, 184
Total Quality Management (TQM)
operational risk management compared, 481
transaction costs
diversification, and, 19
transparency
central banks, and, 9
public institutional investors, and, 5
reputation risk, and, 7
Treynor ratio, 215
unsecured bonds
collateral, as, 349
Wallstreet Suite, 179, 201
514
Index

