=== SOC ANALYST INTERVIEW QUESTIONS (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
SOC ANALYST
INTERVIEW
QUESTIONS

--- Página 2 ---
PRE-
PREPARING
TABLE OF CONTENTS
4
GENERAL
QUESTIONS 5
NETWORK
08

WEB
APPLICATION
SECURITY 12
CRYPTOGRAPHY
16
MALWARE
ANALYSIS 17
EVENT LOG
ANALYSIS
18

THREAT
INTELLIGENCE 19

--- Página 3 ---
W H A T  S H O U L D  Y O U  E X P E C T ?
Basic terminologies
Network fundamentals
Operating system fundamentals
Malware analysis fundamentals
How to analyze attacks (phishing, malware...)
Incident response prosedure
How to detect and remediate specific kind of attack (like golden ticket, phishing etc.)
Ransomware remediation process
Below is a list of the topics on which questions can be asked in the interview.
Security Analyst
Incident Responder
letsdefend.io

--- Página 4 ---
P R E - P R E P A R I N G
First, fully understand what kind of role you are applying for. Like if you're applying
Security Analyst (Tier 1 Analyst) job, then you should already know what Security
Analysts do or what difficulties SOC Analysts are having.
Make sure that you know about the company you are applying for. Are you going to give
support multiple companies at the same time or they are looking for internal SOC?
If you have any friend who is working at the company you're applying for, make a phone
call and ask what kind of difficulties your friend is having.
Do not tell your salary expectation on interview. Answer like: "I think my salary
expectations are within your scale. In case of positive progress, I am open to your
suggestions at the proposal stage."
Make sure you know the salary scale of the job you're applying. You can ask on Reddit.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 5 ---
G E N E R A L  Q U E S T I O N S
Reading daily infosec news from different resources.
The Hacker News
Malwarebytes Labs
HackRead
ThreatPost
By following infosec related social media accounts.
Telegram channels
Joining newsletters related to cyber security
How do you keep yourself updated with information security?
What are black hat, white hat and gray hat?
Blat hat: Black-Hat Hackers are those hackers who enter the system without taking
owners’ permission. These hackers use vulnerabilities as entry points. They hack systems
illegally. They use their skills to deceive and harm people. (GeeksforGeeks)
White hat: White-Hat Hackers are also known as Ethical Hackers. They are certified hackers
who learn hacking from courses. These are good hackers who try to secure our data,
websites. With the rise of cyberattacks organizations and governments have come to
understand that they need ethical hackers. (GeeksforGeeks)
Gray hat: Gray-Hat Hackers are a mix of both black and white hat hackers. These types of
hackers find vulnerabilities in systems without the permission of owners. They don’t have
any malicious intent. However, this type of hacking is still considered illegal. But they never
share information with black hat hackers. They find issues and report the owner,
sometimes requesting a small amount of money to fix it. (GeeksforGeeks)
letsdefend.io

--- Página 6 ---
G E N E R A L  Q U E S T I O N S
What is port scanning?
Port scanning is a method of determining which ports on a network are open and could be
receiving or sending data. It is also a process for sending packets to specific ports on a host
and analyzing responses to identify vulnerabilities. (Avast)
Do you know any programming language?
While this question is up to you, having a basic understanding of programming languages
can be a plus for the interview.
How can you define Blue Team and Red Team basically?
Red team is attacker side, blue team is defender side.
What is firewall?
Firewall is a device that allows or blocks the network traffic according to the rules.
Explain Security Misconfiguration
It is a security vulnerability caused by incomplete or incorrect misconfiguration.
Explain vulnerability, risk and threat.
Vulnerability: Weakness in an information system, system security procedures, internal
controls, or implementation that could be exploited or triggered by a threat source. (src:
NIST)
Risk: the level of impact on agency operations (including mission functions, image, or
reputation), agency assets, or individuals resulting from the operation of an information
system given the potential impact of a threat and the likelihood of that threat occurring.
(src: NIST)
Threat: Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational
operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a
system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information,
and/or denial of service. (src: NIST)
letsdefend.io

--- Página 7 ---
G E N E R A L  Q U E S T I O N S
Antivirus
EDR
XDR
DLP
What is compliance?
Following the set of standards authorized by an organization, independent part, or
government.
What is MITRE ATT&CK?
MITRE ATT&CK® is a globally-accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and
techniques based on real-world observations. The ATT&CK knowledge base is used as a
foundation for the development of specific threat models and methodologies in the private
sector, in government, and in the cybersecurity product and service community. (MITRE
ATT&CK)
Do you have any project that we can look at?
If you do have any project to show, make sure that you prepare it before the interview.
Explain 2FA.
2FA is an extra layer of security used to make sure that people trying to gain access to an
online account are who they say they are. First, a user will enter their username and a
password. Then, instead of immediately gaining access, they will be required to provide
another piece of information. (Authy)
Could you share some general endpoint security product names?
letsdefend.io

--- Página 8 ---
N E T W O R K
Physical layer: The Physical Layer is responsible for the transmission and reception of
unstructured raw data between a device, such as a network interface controller,
Ethernet hub or network switch and a physical transmission medium. It converts the
digital bits into electrical, radio, or optical signals.
Data link layer: The data link layer provides node-to-node data transfer—a link between
two directly connected nodes. It detects and possibly corrects errors that may occur in
the physical layer. It defines the protocol to establish and terminate a connection
between two physically connected devices. It also defines the protocol for flow control
between them. IEEE 802 divides the data link layer into two sublayers: a. Medium access
control (MAC) layer – responsible for controlling how devices in a network gain access
to a medium and permission to transmit data. b. Logical link control (LLC) layer –
responsible for identifying and encapsulating network layer protocols, and controls
error checking and frame synchronization.
Network layer: The network layer provides the functional and procedural means of
transferring packets from one node to another connected in "different networks".
Transport layer: The transport layer provides the functional and procedural means of
transferring variable-length data sequences from a source host to a destination host
from one application to another across a network, while maintaining the quality-of-
service functions. Transport protocols may be connection-oriented or connectionless.
What is OSI Model? Explain each layer.
The Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model) is a conceptual model that
describes the universal standard of communication functions of a telecommunication
system or computing system, without any regard to the system's underlying internal
technology and specific protocol suites. (Wikipedia)
1.
2.
3.
4.
....
letsdefend.io

--- Página 9 ---
N E T W O R K
What is three-way handshake?
TCP uses a three-way handshake to establish a reliable connection. The connection is full
duplex, and both sides synchronize (SYN) and acknowledge (ACK) each other.
The client chooses an initial sequence number, set in the first SYN packet. The server also
chooses its own initial sequence number, set in the SYN/ACK packet.
Each side acknowledges each other's sequence number by incrementing it; this is the
acknowledgement number. The use of sequence and acknowledgment numbers allows
both sides to detect missing or out-of-order segments.
Once a connection is established, ACKs typically follow for each segment. The connection
will eventually end with a RST (reset or tear down the connection) or FIN (gracefully end
the connection). (ScienceDirect)
letsdefend.io

--- Página 10 ---
N E T W O R K
Application Layer
Transport Layer
Internet Layer
Network Access Layer
What is TCP/IP Model? Explain the difference between OSI and TCP/IP
model.
The TCP/IP model is the default method of data communication on the Internet. It was
developed by the United States Department of Defense to enable the accurate and correct
transmission of data between devices.
TCP/IP divides communication tasks into layers that keep the process standardized,
without hardware and software providers doing the management themselves. The data
packets must pass through four layers before they are received by the destination device,
then TCP/IP goes through the layers in reverse order to put the message back into its
original format. (Fortinet)
TCP/IP Model contains four layers. The layers are:
1.
2.
3.
4.
What is ARP?
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a communication protocol used for discovering
the link layer address, such as a MAC address, associated with a given internet layer
address, typically an IPv4 address. This mapping is a critical function in the Internet
protocol suite. (Wikipedia)
What is DHCP?
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network management protocol
used on Internet Protocol (IP) networks for automatically assigning IP addresses and other
communication parameters to devices connected to the network using a client–server
architecture.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 11 ---
N E T W O R K
Firewall
IDS
IPS
WAF
Could you share some general network security product names?
What is the key difference between IDS and IPS?
IDS only detect the traffic but IPS can prevent/block the traffic.
How can you protect yourself from Man-in-the-middle attacks?
While answering this question vary different scenarios, encryption is the key point for being
safe.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 12 ---
W E B  A P P L I C A T I O N  S E C U R I T Y
What are the HTTP response codes?
1XX: Informational 2XX: Success 3XX: Redirection 4XX: Client-side error 5XX: Server-side
error
For example, 404 is 'server cannot find the requested resource'.
Explain OWASP Top Ten.
The OWASP Top 10 is a standard awareness document for developers and web application
security. It represents a broad consensus about the most critical security risks to web
applications. (OWASP)
letsdefend.io

--- Página 13 ---
W E B  A P P L I C A T I O N  S E C U R I T Y
In-band SQLi (Classical SQLi): If a SQL query is sent and a replied to over the same
channel, we call these In-band SQLi. It is easier for attackers to exploit these compared
to other SQLi categories.
Inferential SQLi (Blind SQLi): SQL queries that receive a reply that cannot be seen are
called Inferential SQLi. They are called Blind SQLi because the reply cannot be seen.
Out-of-band SQLi: If the reply to a SQL query is communicated over a different channel
then this type of SQLi is called Out-of-band SQLi. For example, if the attacker is
receiving replies to his SQL queries over the DNS this is called an out-of-band SQLi.
When examining a web request check all areas that come from the user: Because
SQL Injection attacks are not limited to the form areas, you should also check the HTTP
Request Headers like User-Agent.
Look for SQL keywords: Look for words like INSERT, SELECT, WHERE within the data
received from users.
Check for special characters: Look for apostrophes (‘), dashes (-), or parentheses
which are used in SQL or special characters that are frequently used in SQL attacks
within the data received from the user.
Familiarize yourself with frequently used SQL Injection payloads: Even though SQL
payloads change according to the web application, attackers still use some common
payloads to check for SQL Injection vulnerabilities. If you are familiar with these
payloads, you can easily detect SQL Injection payloads. You can see some frequently
used SQL Injection payloads here.
What is SQL injection?
SQL Injections are critical attack methods where a web application directly includes
unsanitized data provided by the user in SQL queries. (LetsDefend)
Explain SQL injection types.
There are 3 types of SQL Injections. These are:
1.
2.
3.
How to prevent SQL injection vulnerability?
letsdefend.io

--- Página 14 ---
W E B  A P P L I C A T I O N  S E C U R I T Y
What is XSS and how XSS can be prevented?
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks are a type of injection, in which malicious scripts are
injected into otherwise benign and trusted websites. XSS attacks occur when an attacker
uses a web application to send malicious code, generally in the form of a browser side
script, to a different end user. Flaws that allow these attacks to succeed are quite
widespread and occur anywhere a web application uses input from a user within the output
it generates without validating or encoding it. (OWASP)
For XSS attacks to be successful, an attacker needs to insert and execute malicious
content in a webpage. Each variable in a web application needs to be protected. Ensuring
that all variables go through validation and are then escaped or sanitized is known as
perfect injection resistance. Any variable that does not go through this process is a
potential weakness. Frameworks make it easy to ensure variables are correctly validated
and escaped or sanitised.
However, frameworks aren't perfect and security gaps still exist in popular frameworks like
React and Angular. Output Encoding and HTML Sanitization help address those gaps.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 15 ---
W E B  A P P L I C A T I O N  S E C U R I T Y
What is IDOR?
Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR), is a vulnerability caused by the lack of an
authorization mechanism or because it is not used properly. It enables a person to access
an object that belongs to another.
Among the highest web application vulnerability security risks published in the 2021
OWASP, IDOR or “Broken Access Control” takes first place.
What is RFI?
Remote File Inclusion (RFI), is the security vulnerability that occurs when a file on different
server is included without sanitizing the data obtained from a user.
What is LFI?
Local File Inclusion (LFI), is the security vulnerability that occurs when a local file is
included without sanitizing the data obtained from a user.
Explain the difference between LFI and RFI?
LFI differs from RFI because the file that is intended to be included is on the same web
server that the web application is hosted on.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 16 ---
C R Y P T O G R A P H Y
The hash function does not need a key to operate.
While the length of the output can variable in encryption algorithms, there is a fixed
output length in hashing algorithms.
Encryption is a two-way function that includes encryption and decryption whilst
hashing is a one-way function that changes a plain text to a unique digest that is
irreversible.
What are encoding, hashing, encryption?
Encoding: Converts the data in the desired format required for exchange between
different systems.
Hashing: Maintains the integrity of a message or data. Any change did any day could be
noticed.
Encryption: Ensures that the data is secure and one needs a digital verification code or
image in order to open it or access it.
What is the difference between hashing and encryption?
Hashing: Hashing is the process of converting the information into a key using a hash
function. The original information cannot be retrieved from the hash key by any means.
(GeeksforGeeks)
Encryption: Encryption is the process of converting a normal readable message known as
plaintext into a garbage message or not readable message known as Ciphertext. The
ciphertext obtained from the encryption can easily be transformed into plaintext using the
encryption key. (GeeksforGeeks)
Difference:
letsdefend.io

--- Página 17 ---
M A L W A R E  A N A L Y S I S
What is the name of the software that compiles of the written codes?
Compiler
What is the name of the software that translates machine codes into
assembly language?
Disassembler
What is the difference between static and dynamic malware analysis?
Static Analysis: It is the approach of analyzing malicious software by reverse engineering
methods without running them. Generally, by decompile / disassemble the malware, each
step that the malware will execute is analyzed, hence the behavior / capacity of the
malware can be analyzed.
Dynamic Analysis: It is the approach that examines the behavior of malicious software on
the system by running it. In dynamic analysis, applications that can examine registry, file,
network and process events are installed in the system, and their behavior is examined by
running malicious software.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 18 ---
E V E N T  L O G  A N A L Y S I S
Security
Application
System
Which event logs are available default on Windows?
With which security Event ID can the Successfully RDP connection be
detected?
4624
With which event id can failed logons be detected?
4625
Which field of which event should I look at so that I can detect RDP
logons?
You can detect RDP logon activities with event ID 4624. "Logon Type" value should be 10.
letsdefend.io

--- Página 19 ---
T H R E A T  I N T E L L I G E N C E
Strategic Threat Intelligence
Tactical Threat Intelligence
Technical Threat Intelligence
Operational Threat Intelligence
What is Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI)?
Threat intelligence is the analysis of data using tools and techniques to generate
meaningful information about existing or emerging threats targeting the organization that
helps mitigate risks. Threat Intelligence helps organizations make faster, more informed
security decisions and change their behavior from reactive to proactive to combat the
attacks. (eccouncil)
What is TAXII in Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI)?
TAXII, short for Trusted Automated eXchange of Intelligence Information, defines how
cyber threat information can be shared via services and message exchanges. (anomali)
Name some of the Threat Intelligence Platforms
IBM X Force Exchange, Cisco Talos, OTX AlienVault
What are the types of Threat Intelligence?
You 
can 
find 
other 
questions 
on 
LetsDefend 
Github 
page:
https://github.com/LetsDefend/SOC-Interview-Questions
letsdefend.io

