=== The 5 CISO Archetypes.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
Clarify Your Role | Align to Business 
Objectives | Be Happy Doing It
CISO Archeotypes
Five
Christian Hyatt
WRITTEN BY
AN E-BOOK PRODUCED BY
The

--- Página 2 ---
Contents
Goal of this Book ................................................3
Background.............................................................................4
Background Continued........................................................5
3 Business Objectives.........................................6
Overview.................................................................................7
Objective 1: Risk Management...........................................8
Case Study: Risk Management............................................9
Objective 2: Cost Reduction............................................. 10
Case Study: Cost Reduction............................................. 11
Objective 3: Revenue Generation................................... 12
Case Study: Revenue Generation.................................... 13
The Five CISO Archeotypes..........................14
The Five CISO Archetypes............................................... 15
The Executive....................................................................... 16
The Engineer.......................................................................... 17
The GRC Guru...........................................................................18
The Technician..........................................................................19
The Builder............................................................................... 20
Toolkit.................................................................. 21
Assess Your Archeotype.................................................... 21
Building Your Team.......................................................... 22
About the Author..........................................................23
Let’s Get Started....................................................... 24
2

--- Página 3 ---
By reading this book you will discover your strengths, 
weaknesses, areas where you need support from your 
team, and types of organizations you best fit.  We call these 
attributes Security Leader Archetypes.
We will also provide the tools to analyze organizations to 
better understand their security priorities. You will be able 
to use these tools to identify organizations that would most 
benefit from your natural strengths as a security leader. 
Organizations that you will love to work with and that would 
love to have you as part of their team.
Ultimately, we believe following the steps outlined in this 
book will make you a more effective security leader and 
more satisfied with your career.
This Book is for Current  
or Aspiring Security Leaders
Goal of this Book 
	
✓Do you know your unique ability?
	
✓Is your current role a source of 
positive energy? 
	
✓Are you making an impact on your 
organization? 
	
✓Are you making an impact on 
team members?
3

--- Página 4 ---
Before we begin, it may be helpful to understand how we 
arrived at the conclusions in this book.
Over five years, risk3sixty has performed over 1000 security 
assessments. During that same period, we have had the 
opportunity to interview dozens of security executives on 
our company podcast Tuesday Morning Grind.
These intimate interactions with security leaders and the 
organizations they serve afforded us the unique opportunity 
identify a clear pattern: 5 CISO Archetypes.
We realized that virtually all of the security leaders that we 
work with share common attributes. Further, we realized 
that the highest performing (and most satisfied) security 
leaders work at organizations that uniquely aligned with 
their CISO Archetype.
Background
	
✓1000 Security Assessments
	
✓100s of Interviews with 
Security Leaders
4

--- Página 5 ---
That’s when we realized there could be an opportunity 
to consciously align the right security leader to the 
right organization. By understanding these archetypes, 
security leaders can seek alignment as part of their own 
career planning. Similarly, organizations could design job 
descriptions and build teams around them.
Today, CISO-to-Organization alignment rarely happened 
intentionally. Usually, a CISO just happens to land in a 
job that is a great fit, but “archetype” alignment is rarely a 
decision criterion.
Similarly, organizations are equally haphazard. They typically 
interview for security leaders with the right experience, but 
fail to identify unique personality attributes that will make 
both parties were successful.
That is the inspiration for this book. We think that this 
book can serve as a CISO-to-Organization matchmaking 
guide. And if security leaders and organizations are 
well matched, it sets both parties up for long-term 
success.
Background 
	
✓Security leader career 
planning 
	
✓Organizations can build 
teams around these ideas
Continued
5

--- Página 6 ---
3 Business 
Objectives
Everything security does will align to 
one of these three business objectives.  
There are no exceptions.

--- Página 7 ---
Business Objectives
7
Overview
Every business leader must understand that there are three business objectives that 
security leaders support.
Only three.
These business objectives exist in every organization, in every industry, of every 
size. They are the key to your organization’s sustainability and growth. And 
every business leader has these three objectives top of mind. Understanding 
these business objectives will help you understand the critical drives of your 
organization’s success, get inside the mind of the executive team, and align your 
security program to the essential activities of the business.
When security leaders have this knowledge, it opens doors. You become 
a peer to the executive team. You get brought in on business strategy. 
Those conversations - in turn - inform your security strategy. That creates an 
environment where you can get things done.
	
✓Improved Risk  Management
	
✓Free Up Resources
	
✓Cost Reduction

--- Página 8 ---
Business Objectives
8
Objective 1: Risk Management
	
✓Goal is to reduce risk
	
✓Common for companies protecting 
critical data or infrastructure
	
✓May prioritize implementation 
of new toolsets or monitoring of 
security program health
The first business objective many organizations have is risk management. For most 
security leaders, this is the most intuitive business objective supported by security. It 
is easy to understand how good security reduces risk. 
Risk management is a common objective for organizations that a security 
breach would significantly impact. For example, companies that support critical 
infrastructure, banking, and finance or store large amounts of customer data 
would likely consider risk management a primary objective.
Organizations concerned with risk management may prioritize projects such 
as implementing new toolsets or enhanced processes to monitor for security 
program health.

--- Página 9 ---
Business Objectives
9
Case Study: Risk Management
	
ɪ What do you think are the executive 
team’s biggest concerns? 
	
ɪ What business objective best aligns 
with the goals of CriticalCorp?
	
ɪ What type of team members should 
the security leader consider? What 
skills will they need?
CritcalCorp is a big data company that stores the identity of over 500M people 
globally. They share this information with federal state governments. The 
information includes SS#, employment history, and top-secret military clearance 
status.
The company is aware that it could be a target of nation-states, criminal 
organizations, and hacktivists. They are also aware that their business would 
lose a significant competitive advantage and harm their reputation beyond 
repair if the data is compromised.
Thinking Excercise

--- Página 10 ---
Business Objectives
10
Objective 2: Cost Reduction
	
✓Goal is to reduce cost and 
complexity
	
✓Common goal of companies 
burdened with audit and compliance 
requirements
	
✓Harmonizing audits or automation 
may be common project types
The second objective of security is cost reduction. This is the organization’s 
desire to reduce the monetary cost, complexity,  human efforts associated with 
achieving security and compliance goals.
Cost and complexity reduction objectives are common for organizations that are 
over-burdened by audit and compliance requirements. For example, in some 
organization’s product engineers are significantly hindered by spending their 
days collecting audit evidence instead of building products.
For these organizations, harmonizing audit efforts and automation might be key 
project types.

--- Página 11 ---
Business Objectives
11
Case Study: Cost Reduction
	
ɪ What do you think are the executive 
team’s biggest concerns? 
	
ɪ What business objective best aligns 
with the goals of MegaSaaS?
	
ɪ What type of team members should 
the security leader consider? What 
skills will they need?
MegaSaaS has the largest project management tool on the internet. The tool is 
used by millions of end-users across thousands of companies daily.
Due to the software’s wide variety of potential use cases, the company has 
a significant compliance burden. They must comply with SOC 2, ISO 27001, 
HITRUST, PCI DSS, GDPR, among other contractual requirements, with some of 
their largest customers.
The audit burden and associated evidence gathering are starting to impact 
morale. The engineering team has even missed deadlines due to attending audit 
walkthroughs and collecting evidence.
Thinking Excercise

--- Página 12 ---
Business Objectives
12
Objective 3: Revenue Generation
	
✓Goal is to support sales and 
customer trust
	
✓Common goal of high growth 
technology companies
	
✓Obtaining certifications, answering 
security questionnaires, customer 
interface are common tasks
The third objective of security is to assist with revenue-generating activities. This 
is the organization’s desire to win the trust of new clients and prospects by 
demonstrating an effective and compliance posture.
Revenue generation is often a top business objectives start-up and high growth 
technology revenue-focused organizations.
Common security initiatives such as obtaining security certifications, answering 
diligence questionnaires, or supporting sales calls may fall into this category.

--- Página 13 ---
Business Objectives
13
Case Study: Revenue Generation
	
ɪ What do you think are the executive 
team’s biggest concerns? 
	
ɪ What business objective best aligns 
with the goals of CashSoft?
	
ɪ What type of team members should 
the security leader consider? What 
skills will they need?
CashSoft is a startup that recently received $35M in venture capital funding. They 
are a SaaS application that helps facilitate payments for retail locations. They are 
doubling in revenue every year and acquiring new customers weekly.
Because customers are deeply concerned with the security of payment 
transactions, the security leader sits in on sales calls and answers security 
questionnaires almost daily. The organization has also committed to PCI DSS 
and SOC 2 compliance.
Next year, CashSoft expects to partner with two large banks, and security is top 
of mind for the partnership to finalize.
Thinking Excercise

--- Página 14 ---
The Five 
 CISO Archeotypes
Who you are | Where you thrive | Where others can help

--- Página 15 ---
15
The Five CISO Archetypes
	
ɪ Do you understand your unique 
abilities?
	
ɪ Is your current role a source of 
positive energy? 
	
ɪ Are you making an impact on your 
organization? 
	
ɪ Are you making an impact on team 
members?
One of the most important things any leader can do is know themselves.
Great leaders must examine themselves to understand their strengths, 
weaknesses, and passions. Self-awareness arms leaders with the knowledge 
to align themselves with the right organization and build the right team to 
accomplish important work.
Understanding the five CISO archetypes provides a model to understand 
yourself for security leaders. You should use this information as a guide to 
understanding your career and the team you want to build.
Thinking Excercise

--- Página 16 ---
16
The Executive
	
✓Great leader 
	
✓Alignment with business 
objectives
	
✓Must be supported by 
doers
Strengths: Often great cross-functional leaders that can get things done. They are naturally 
attached to the business’s priorities and run security accordingly. They often have 
experience building teams and budgeting. They often empathize with those outside the 
security organization and, as a result, can collaborate effectively.
Weaknesses: May lack technical skills or compliance experience. As a result, they are 
not effective individual contributors.
Support Needed: Often need to be supported by a strong team of non-executive 
subject matter experts at the management level. There should be an enhanced focus 
on reporting key performance indicators that clearly communicate the program’s 
health to the Executive CISO.
Best Fit: Typically, a better fit for more complex organizations that require a strong 
administrator and manager of people at the helm. Organizations with multiple business 
units and multi-layered organizational structures would benefit from an executive CISO.
The Five CISO Archeotypes
An executive (often a former CIO, COO, or CTO) that has been tasked 
with the responsibility of running the security organization.

--- Página 17 ---
17
The Engineer
	
✓Natural Engineer
	
✓Empathizes with SMEs
	
✓Dislikes Compliance and 
Bureaucracies
Strengths: Thrives in engineering-minded organizations with technically minded staff charged 
with building secure systems. They are especially effective when communicating with software 
developers or system architects.
Weaknesses: They typically understand security at a deeper technical level but often 
struggle with the bureaucracy that accompanies compliance. 
Support Needed: They will help the organization thrive when paired with GRC managers 
who can help run the compliance side of the program.
Best Fit: Can be sub-divided into enterprise security technicians and product security 
leaders. Enterprise security practitioners will be great for organizations with a network they 
wish to protect from outsiders. If you have a large security operations center or network 
security concerns, they are the right fit for you. If your organization’s most significant 
concerns are product security, you may prefer someone with a “DevSecOps” or engineering 
background.
The Five CISO Archeotypes
Often has prior experience in information technology, engineering, or 
product. They were often “doers” or “builders” with a hands-on background.

--- Página 18 ---
18
The GRC Guru
	
✓Great nose for 
business risk
	
✓Master at Compliance
	
✓Lacks experience with 
tools and technology
Strengths: Thrive in highly regulated environments with the ability to follow a framework, 
achieve certification, and collaborate with auditors and regulators. They typically understand 
how to interpret and navigate audit, certification, and regulatory frameworks. GRC CISOs are 
often well equipped to navigate executive and board-level reporting.
Weaknesses: Often lack deep technical acumen or engineering experience. As a result, 
they may not have hands-on experience using security tools or building software. Because 
of this, they may not have the expertise to manage or implement technical solutions.
Support Needed: Well paired with technical subject matter experts that are comfortable 
executing technical “hands-on” job requirements.
Best Fit: Great for organizations with complex regulatory or compliance requirements. For 
organizations focused on achieving security certifications, meeting regulatory or compliance 
requirements, or facing significant customer due diligence (e.g., security questionnaires) in 
the sales cycle, a GRC CISO may be the right choice. If your organization’s biggest concerns are 
product security, you may prefer someone with a “DevSecOps” or engineering background.
The Five CISO Archeotypes
Likely has prior public accounting, auditing, and governance experience. 
They will be focused on governance, assurance, and compliance.

--- Página 19 ---
19
The Technician
	
✓Understands the link 
between traditional I.T.  
and Cybersecurity
	
✓Took on Security as an 
Additional Duty
	
✓Multiple hats (CIO, VP of I.T.)
Strengths: Have the best understanding of the technical components of various systems that 
support the organization.
Weaknesses: Since I.T. builds and supports the systems in question they may have blind 
spots when it comes to assessing their security posture. Further, there is a natural conflict 
of interest as the I.T. leader may be apprehensive to point out security weaknesses in the 
systems they own. Finally, there is simply too much to do – the I.T. leader will not have the 
time to oversee all of I.T. and security effectively.
Support Needed: While the Technician may be required to support security as a matter 
of necessity (due to resource or budget constraints), it is not a long-term solution for most 
organizations at scale. Therefore, the I.T. leader will require a security manager or analyst 
as soon as is feasible.
While this position is common, it is not a CISO role, and it is not effective/fair to hold this 
individual accountable to security activities without appropriate support, resources,  
and budget.
The Five CISO Archeotypes
Has informally or formally adopted security responsibilities as an additional 
duty. Often a CIO, VP of I.T., or Director of IT is their primary role.

--- Página 20 ---
20
The Builder
	
✓Great program builders
	
✓Moves quickly 
	
✓May require support 
sustaining the program
Strengths: Builders are great at making progress quickly. They thrive in organizations that have 
prioritized security and are willing to dedicate time and resources to accomplish the objective. 
Builders understand prioritizing initiatives, sequence events, and achieve clear objectives.
Weaknesses: Builders may get bored quickly if they are not challenged with a clear 
objective. They may lack the patience to navigate the complex organizational bureaucracy 
to make decisions. Because builders are most fulfilled by getting programs off the ground, 
they often change jobs more frequently than average. They may not be satisfied with 
routine or operationalized security programs. 
Support Needed: Builders do well when paired with a high-energy and flexible team ready 
to take responsibility for various tasks.
Best Fit: Builders are the best fit for any organization with the goal of getting a security 
program off the ground. Builders are especially valuable for organizations with a clear goal, 
such as rapidly implementing a security roadmap or achieving certification.
The Five CISO Archeotypes
Master of getting security programs off the ground. They often have 
backgrounds with start-up or rapidly growing organizations.

--- Página 21 ---
21
Assess Your Archeotype
Now let’s perform a self-assessment to determine which security leader archetype 
you most closely align.
We have created a simple tool that will help you assess yourself to better 
understand which security leader archetype you most closely align with.
Use the link on this page and take the assessment. The assessment will 
take about 5 minutes. After taking the assessment you will have a better 
understanding of what kind of leader you most closely align with.
You can use the results of this assessment along with the business objective 
assessment in chapter 2 to determine if you are aligned with your organization’s 
needs.
If you are not aligned, don’t worry. That probably means you just need to build a 
team that fills in some of your gaps. The next tool will help with that.
Toolkit

--- Página 22 ---
22
Building Your Team
Every leader must surround themselves with a team of individuals to  
accomplish the mission.
Now that you understand your organization’s business objectives and 
your natural strengths, you can assemble a team to help your company 
accomplish big things.
You can use the link on this page to download our security team roles and 
responsibilities tool. This tool provides a list of all of the common activities 
that need to be managed as part of a security program and will help you 
document areas in which you need support.
Toolkit
Download Forms

--- Página 23 ---
23
About the Author
Christian is a serial entrepreneur with 15 years of experience in security, privacy, 
and compliance. Based on his experience as an entrepreneur and from working 
with dozens of unicorn start-ups (start-ups with $1B+ valuation), Christian brings 
a unique and philosophical perspective to cybersecurity, privacy, and what it 
takes to build a successful business.
Christian received his M.B.A. with honors from the Georgia Institute of 
Technology and his B.B.A. with honors from the University of Georgia.
Also check out Christian’s webinar presentation on this book ›

--- Página 24 ---
24
Let’s Get Started
risk3sixty is a nationally recognized security, privacy, and compliance 
advisory firm serving firms across the United States and Globally.  
We strive to be “craftsmen” in our space, and as a result, we 
offer our clients an uncommon level of service demonstrably 
unchallenged in our industry. 
By the Numbers: 
+ Security, Privacy, and Compliance Experts
+ 100% Three-Year Client Retention 
+ Clients across the United States and 17 countries 
Our Promise of Quality: 
We pride ourselves on our ability to provide outstanding service, 
meet our client’s deadlines, and exceed expectations. This is why 
we are proud of our 100% three-year client retention and that 
100% of our clients are references. The bottom line is that if you 
aren’t satisfied with the quality of our services, we’ll make it right. 
Period.
Ross McCurdy
ross.mccurdy@risk3sixty.com
Ryan McGowan
ryan.mcgowan@risk3sixty.com

