=== Threat Intelligence Handbook (2).pdf ===

--- Página 2 ---
About Recorded Future
Recorded Future delivers security intelligence to amplify the 
effectiveness of security and IT teams in reducing exposure 
by uncovering unknown threats and informing better, faster 
decisions. Working to provide a singular view of digital, 
brand, and third-party risk, the Recorded Future platform 
provides proactive and predictive intelligence, analyzing data 
from open, proprietary, and aggregated customer-provided 
sources. Recorded Future arms threat analysts, vulnerability 
management teams, security operations centers, and incident 
responders with context-rich, actionable intelligence in real 
time that’s ready for integration across the security ecosystem. 
Learn more at www.recordedfuture.com and follow us on 
Twitter at @RecordedFuture.

--- Página 3 ---
Foreword by Christopher Ahlberg, Ph.D.
Edited by Zane Pokorny
The Threat Intelligence 
Handbook
Second Edition
Moving Toward a Security 
Intelligence Program

--- Página 4 ---
The Threat Intelligence Handbook, Second Edition
Published by:
CyberEdge Group, LLC
1997 Annapolis Exchange Parkway
Suite 300
Annapolis, MD 21401
(800) 327-8711
www.cyber-edge.com
Copyright © 2019, CyberEdge Group, LLC. All rights reserved. Definitive Guide™ and 
the CyberEdge Press logo are trademarks of CyberEdge Group, LLC in the United 
States and other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are the 
property of their respective owners.
Except as permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this 
publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or 
by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise, 
without the prior written permission of the publisher. Requests to the publisher for 
permission should be addressed to Permissions Department, CyberEdge Group, 1997 
Annapolis Exchange Parkway, Suite 300, Annapolis, MD, 21401 or transmitted via 
email to info@cyber-edge.com.
LIMIT OF LIABILITY/DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY: THE PUBLISHER AND THE AUTHOR 
MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE ACCURACY 
OR COMPLETENESS OF THE CONTENTS OF THIS WORK AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM 
ALL WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION WARRANTIES OF FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ADVICE AND STRATEGIES CONTAINED HEREIN 
MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR EVERY SITUATION. NEITHER THE PUBLISHER NOR THE 
AUTHOR SHALL BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES ARISING HEREFROM. THE FACT THAT AN 
ORGANIZATION OR WEBSITE IS REFERRED TO IN THIS WORK AS A CITATION AND/
OR A POTENTIAL SOURCE OF FURTHER INFORMATION DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE 
AUTHOR OR THE PUBLISHER ENDORSES THE INFORMATION THE ORGANIZATION OR 
WEBSITE MAY PROVIDE OR RECOMMENDATIONS IT MAY MAKE. FURTHER, READERS 
SHOULD BE AWARE THAT INTERNET WEBSITES LISTED IN THIS WORK MAY HAVE 
CHANGED OR DISAPPEARED BETWEEN WHEN THIS WORK WAS WRITTEN AND WHEN 
IT IS READ.
For general information on CyberEdge Group research and marketing consulting 
services, or to create a custom Definitive Guide book for your organization, contact 
our sales department at 800-327-8711 or info@cyber-edge.com.
ISBN: 978-1-948939-06-5 (paperback) 
ISBN: 978-1-948939-07-2 (eBook)
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Publisher’s Acknowledgements
CyberEdge Group thanks the following individuals for their respective contributions:
Copy Editor: Susan Shuttleworth
Graphic Design: Debbi Stocco
Production Coordinator: Jon Friedman

--- Página 5 ---
Contributors
Zane Pokorny (editor and contributor) is a technical writer 
for Recorded Future’s research team, Insikt Group. He has a 
background in research and report writing for nongovernmen­
tal organizations.
Andrei Barysevich (contributor) specializes in the analysis 
of intelligence from cybercriminal communities at Recorded 
Future. Andrei has worked as an independent e-commerce 
fraud researcher, and a private consultant for the FBI's cyber-
crime unit.
Levi Gundert (contributor) has spent the past 20 years 
in both the government and the private sector, defending 
networks, arresting international criminals, and uncovering 
nation-state adversaries. He has held senior information 
security leadership positions across technology and financial 
services startups and enterprises. He is a trusted risk advisor 
to Fortune 500 companies, and a prolific speaker, blogger, and 
columnist.
Allan Liska (contributor) is a senior security architect at 
Recorded Future. Allan has more than 15 years of experience 
in information security, authoring numerous books and work­
ing as both a security practitioner and an ethical hacker.
Maggie McDaniel (contributor) is senior director of 
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group research team. With more 
than 15 years of experience in threat intelligence tradecraft, 
analysis, and production, Maggie’s previous roles include 
director of intelligence production at Fidelity Investments.
John Wetzel (contributor) heads up training at Recorded 
Future. John’s previous role was as a counterintelligence spe­
cial agent with the Department of Defense, where he worked 
with the U.S. defense community to defend against foreign 
threats targeting the nation's technologies.
Foreword by Dr. Christopher Ahlberg, co-founder and 
CEO, Recorded Future.

--- Página 6 ---
Table of Contents
Contributors	
iii
Foreword to the Second Edition	
viii
Introduction	
xi
Moving Toward a Security Intelligence Program	
xi
Chapters at a Glance	
xii
Helpful Icons	
xiii
Section 1: What is Threat Intelligence?
Chapter 1: What Is Threat Intelligence?	
3
What Have You Heard About Threat Intelligence?	
3
Why Is Threat Intelligence Important?	
4
Who Can Benefit From Threat Intelligence?	
5
Data and Information Are Not Intelligence	
6
Two Types of Threat Intelligence	
8
Operational Threat Intelligence	
8
Strategic Threat Intelligence	
9
The Role of Threat Data Feeds	
10
The Role of Private Channels and the Dark Web	
11
Chapter 2: The Threat Intelligence Lifecycle	
13
The Six Phases of the Threat Intelligence Lifecycle	
13
Direction	
14
Collection	
15
Processing	
17
Analysis	
17
Dissemination	
18
Feedback	
19
Tools and People	
19
Section 2: Applications of Threat Intelligence
Chapter 3: Threat Intelligence for Security Operations	
23
Responsibilities of the SOC Team	
23
The Overwhelming Volume of Alerts	
24
Context Is King	
25
Triage requires lots of context	
26
Use case: Correlating and enriching alerts	
27
Improving the “Time to No”	
29
Beyond Triage	
30
Chapter 4: Threat Intelligence for Incident Response	
31
Continuing Challenges	
32
A skills gap	
32
Too many alerts, too little time	
32
Time to response is rising	
33
A piecemeal approach	
33

--- Página 7 ---
﻿Table of Contents | v 
The Reactivity Problem	
34
Minimizing Reactivity in Incident Response	
34
Identification of probable threats	
34
Prioritization	
35
Strengthening Incident Response With Threat Intelligence	
35
Threat Intelligence in Action	
36
Use case: Prepare processes in advance	
36
Use case: Scope and contain incidents	
36
Use case: Remediate data exposure and stolen assets	
37
Abuse case: Half measures are worse than nothing	
38
Essential Characteristics of Threat Intelligence for Incident Response	
38
Comprehensive	
38
Relevant	
39
Contextualized	
40
Integrated	
41
Chapter 5: Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability Management	
43
The Vulnerability Problem by the Numbers	
44
Zero day does not mean top priority	
44
Time is of the essence	
44
Assess Risk Based on Exploitability	
45
Severity ratings can be misleading	
46
The Genesis of Threat Intelligence: Vulnerability Databases	
46
Exploitability versus exploitation	
47
Next week versus now	
48
Threat Intelligence and Real Risk	
49
Internal vulnerability scanning	
50
Risk milestones for vulnerabilities	
50
Understanding the adversary	
50
Sources of Intelligence	
51
Use Case: Cross-Referencing Intelligence	
53
Bridging the Risk Gaps Between Security, Operations, and Business Leadership	53
Chapter 6: Threat Intelligence for Security Leaders	
55
Risk Management	
56
Internal data is not enough	
56
Sharpening the focus	
57
Mitigation: People, Processes, and Tools	
58
Early warnings	
59
Investment 	
59
Communication	
60
Supporting Security Leaders	
60
The Security Skills Gap	
61
Intelligence to Manage Better	
61
Chapter 7: Threat Intelligence for Risk Analysis	
63
The FAIR Risk Model	
64
Measurements and transparency are key	
65

--- Página 8 ---
vi | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Threat Intelligence and Threat Probabilities	
66
Threat Intelligence and the Cost of Attacks	
68
Chapter 8: Threat Intelligence for Fraud Prevention	
71
Stand and Deliver!	
71
Know Your Enemy	
72
Criminal Communities and the Dark Web	
74
Gated communities	
74
A strength — and a weakness	
74
Connecting the Dots for Fraud Prevention	
75
Use case: Payment fraud	
76
Use case: Compromised data	
76
Use case: Typosquatting and fraudulent domains	
77
Chapter 9: Threat Intelligence for Reducing Third-Party Risk	
79
Third-Party Risk Looms Large	
79
Traditional Risk Assessments Fall Short	
80
Three Things to Look for in Threat Intelligence	
82
Automation and machine learning	
82
Real-time updates to risk scores	
83
Transparent risk assessments	
83
Responding to High Third-Party Risk Scores	
85
Chapter 10: Threat Intelligence for Digital Risk Protection	
87
Being Online Is Being at Risk	
87
Types of Digital Risk	
88
Uncovering Evidence of Breaches on the Web	
89
Uncovering Evidence of Brand Impersonation and Abuse	
90
Critical Qualities for Threat Intelligence Solutions	
92
Section 3: Your Threat Intelligence Program
Chapter 11: Analytical Frameworks for Threat Intelligence	
95
The Lockheed Martin Cyber Kill Chain®	
96
Limitations of the Cyber Kill Chain	
97
The Diamond Model	
97
Flexibility	
99
Challenges with the Diamond Model	
99
The MITRE ATT&CK™ Framework	
100
Categories of attacker behavior	
100
Chapter 12: Your Threat Intelligence Journey	
103
Don’t Start With Threat Feeds	
103
Clarify Your Threat Intelligence Needs and Goals	
104
Answer these questions 	
104
Identify teams that can benefit most from threat intelligence	
105
Key Success Factors	
106
Generating quick wins with monitoring	
106
Automating as much as possible	
107

--- Página 9 ---
Table of Contents | vii 
Integrating threat intelligence with processes and infrastructure	
107
Getting expert help to nurture internal experts	
108
Start Simple and Scale Up	
109
Chapter 13: Developing the Core Threat Intelligence Team	
111
Dedicated, but Not Necessarily Separate	
111
A dedicated team is best	
112
Its location depends on your organization	
112
Core Competencies	
113
Collecting and Enriching Threat Data	
114
The human edge	
114
Additional sources	
115
Combining sources	
115
The role of intelligent machines	
116
Engaging With Threat Intelligence Communities	
116
Conclusion: Moving Toward a Security Intelligence Program	
119
Key Takeaways From the Book	
119
Appendix	
121

--- Página 10 ---
Foreword to the 
Second Edition
W
hen I started Recorded Future about a decade ago, 
I made a bet. I wagered that the future of informa­
tion security lay with moving from a reactive to a proactive 
approach, where security professionals would use threat 
intelligence gathered from every corner of the internet to 
give us insight into the intentions and techniques of our 
adversaries.
In the 10 years since, a lot has changed in the world of 
cybersecurity. It seems every day’s news is filled with stories 
about major data breaches affecting millions of people, 
whole municipalities having their networks held hostage by 
ransomware attacks, and nation-state actors manipulating 
elections, influencing public opinion, and persecuting their 
enemies. “Cyber warfare” is becoming a familiar term — 
today we can’t imagine warfare without a cyber element 
playing a crucial role at every level of operations.
Our most precious information is no longer kept in locked 
file cabinets or safes, but on our computers and in the 
cloud. It’s just not enough to lock down your endpoints and 
keep alert for suspicious behavior inside your own network. 
The threat landscape is way too big for that now. We need 
to get real-time, automated threat intelligence in front of 
the people who can take action quickly, helping them stop 
threats fast — sometimes before they even happen.
That goal motivates all the work we do at Recorded Future. 
Our work is based on three principles:
1. Threat intelligence must provide the context 
to make informed decisions and take action.
Threat intelligence needs to be timely, clear, and action­
able. It has to come at the right time, in a form that is 
understandable. It should enrich your knowledge, not 
complicate the decision-making process. It should help

--- Página 11 ---
﻿ Foreword to the Second Edition | ix 
put everybody in your organization on the same page.
2. People and machines work better together.
Machines can process and categorize raw data orders 
exponentially faster than humans. On the other hand, 
humans can perform intuitive, big-picture analysis much 
better than any artificial intelligence — as long as they’re 
not overwhelmed with sorting through huge data sets and 
doing tedious research. When people and machines are 
paired, each works smarter, saving time and money, reduc­
ing human burnout, and improving security overall.
3. Threat intelligence is for everyone.
No matter what security role you play, threat intelligence 
makes a difference. It’s not a separate domain of secu­
rity — it’s context that helps you work smarter, whether 
you’re staffing a SOC, managing vulnerabilities, or making 
high-level security decisions. But to make things easier, 
not harder, threat intelligence should integrate with the 
solutions and workflows you already rely on and should be 
easy to implement.
At Recorded Future, we believe wholeheartedly in these core 
principles, and our approach has been validated in the year 
since the first edition of this handbook came out. We’re help­
ing stop threats in the security departments of 90 of Fortune’s 
top 100 companies in the United States, not to mention 
countless organizations and government institutions around 
the world. And we’ve grown to over 400 employees now from 
40 countries.
We continue to innovate and improve our intelligence 
solutions. That includes this handbook, which has been 
updated with three new chapters for its second edition. We’ve 
given this edition a subtitle of “Moving Toward a Security 
Intelligence Program,” and these new chapters address this 
shift that every organization is going to have to take: toward 
security intelligence, a new paradigm of security of which 
threat intelligence is only one part. 
Threats are coming from everywhere (open web, dark web, 
partners, internal, brand attacks) and a true view of your 
entire threat surface is needed or else you are vulnerable. That 
takes a security solution that encompasses threat intelligence

--- Página 12 ---
x | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
that you can correlate with internal network data, digital risk 
protection, and third-party risk management.
We hope this handbook can play its part in helping you make 
this shift by offering practical information and advice that 
you can apply today to solve real-world problems with threat 
intelligence.
I want to thank everyone who has contributed to the contents 
of this handbook: our users and customers, industry experts, 
and the Recorded Future staff listed on the Contributors 
page at the beginning of this volume.
We hope you will find this updated book an informative com­
panion as you apply threat intelligence to address the security 
challenges you face.
Christopher Ahlberg, Ph.D.
Co-Founder and CEO
Recorded Future

--- Página 13 ---
Introduction
Moving Toward a Security 
Intelligence Program
T
oday, cyber threats are coming from everywhere — the 
open web and dark web, but also partners and other 
third parties, brand attacks, and internal threats — and digital 
business risk is at an all-time high. This leaves everyone 
without a true, comprehensive view of their entire threat 
landscape vulnerable.
A comprehensive cybersecurity strategy requires the 
implementation of techniques and technology to proactively 
reduce risk and stop threats fast. This book explains how 
security intelligence helps teams working in security 
operations, incident response, vulnerability management, 
risk analysis, threat analysis, fraud prevention, and security 
leadership make better, faster decisions and amplify their 
impact.
We call this approach “security intelligence” because it goes 
beyond just threat intelligence (though threat intelligence 
remains a central pillar) and also encompasses digital risk 
protection and third-party risk management. It’s a framework 
that amplifies the effectiveness of security teams and tools by 
exposing unknown threats, informing better decisions, and 
driving a common understanding to ultimately accelerate risk 
reduction across the organization.
In this second edition of the Handbook, you’ll find a 
completely new introductory chapter on threat intelligence 
that breaks down what threat intelligence is and how every 
security function benefits from it, as well as two entirely new 
chapters — one on third-party risk reduction, and one on 
digital risk protection. Together, these three pillars of security 
intelligence provide the comprehensive view of both your 
internal and external threat landscape that every organization

--- Página 14 ---
xii | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
needs today to reduce cyber risk and stay ahead of threats of 
all kinds.
This is only the start. Recorded Future will soon be publishing 
new materials that go into more depth on these three areas of 
security intelligence, how they reinforce each other, and how 
they can be addressed by a single technology platform. For 
more information, check regularly at recordedfuture.com.
— The Recorded Future Team
Chapters at a Glance
Section 1: What Is Threat Intelligence?
Chapter 1, “What Is Threat Intelligence,” outlines the 
value of threat intelligence and the roles of operational and 
strategic threat intelligence. 
Chapter 2, “The Threat Intelligence Lifecycle,” 
describes the phases of the threat intelligence lifecycle and 
looks at sources of threat intelligence.
Section 2: Applications of Threat Intelligence
Chapter 3, “Threat Intelligence for Security 
Operations,” explores how intelligence provides context for 
triage and helps the SOC team make better decisions.
Chapter 4, “Threat Intelligence for Incident 
Response,” discusses how intelligence can minimize 
reactivity in incident response and presents three use cases.
Chapter 5, “Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability 
Management,” examines how intelligence helps prioritize 
vulnerabilities based on true risk to the enterprise.
Chapter 6, “Threat Intelligence for Security Leaders,” 
explores how building a comprehensive threat intelligence 
capability can help CISOs manage risk and make effective 
investment decisions.
Chapter 7, “Threat Intelligence for Risk Analysis,” 
explains the value of risk models and how intelligence can 
provide hard data about attack probabilities and costs.

--- Página 15 ---
Introduction | xiii 
Chapter 8, “Threat Intelligence for Fraud 
Prevention,” enumerates how intelligence can help 
anticipate and defeat fraud.
Chapter 9, “Threat Intelligence for Reducing Third-
Party Risk,” suggests how intelligence can help assess 
supply chain partners and reduce third party risk.
Chapter 10, “Threat Intelligence for Digital Risk 
Protection,” illustrates how intelligence can help identify 
and remediate brand impersonation and data breaches.
Section 3: Your Threat Intelligence Program
Chapter 11, “Analytical Frameworks for Threat 
Intelligence,” explains how three leading threat frameworks 
provide useful structures for thinking about attacks.
Chapter 12, “Your Threat Intelligence Journey,” 
provides suggestions on how to start simple and scale up a 
threat intelligence program.
Chapter 13, “Developing the Core Threat Intelligence 
Team,” describes how a dedicated team can take threat 
intelligence to a new level.
Helpful Icons
TIP
Tips provide practical advice that you can apply in your own 
organization.
DON’T FORGET
When you see this icon, take note, as the related content 
contains key information that you won’t want to forget. 
CAUTION
Proceed with caution because if you don’t, it may prove costly 
to you and your organization.
TECH TALK
Content associated with this icon is more technical in nature 
and is intended for IT practitioners.
ON THE WEB
Want to learn more? Follow the corresponding URL to 
discover additional content available on the web.

--- Página 17 ---
Section 1: What Is Threat 
Intelligence?

--- Página 19 ---
Chapter 1
What Is Threat 
Intelligence?
In this chapter
  Understand why threat intelligence is important 
  Learn about operational and strategic threat intelligence 
  Explore the role of threat feeds and the value of monitoring 
private channels
“Every battle is won before it is ever fought.” 
― Sun Tzu
What Have You Heard About 
Threat Intelligence?
Y
ou may have heard threat intelligence discussed at a 
conference or trade show. Perhaps you were informed 
by a consultant that threat intelligence provides external 
context for security decisions. Maybe you read a report about 
state-sponsored attacks and want to know how to protect your 
enterprise. You have probably noticed that in organizations 
from multinational enterprises to midmarket companies, 
information security teams are racing to add threat intel­
ligence to their security programs.
But you may also have heard some misconceptions: that 
threat intelligence is just data feeds and PDF reports, is simply 
a research service for the incident response team, or requires a 
dedicated team of high-priced, elite analysts.

--- Página 20 ---
4 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
These are fallacies! In this book, we will show that threat 
intelligence:
;
; 
Includes information and analysis from a rich array 
of sources, presented in ways that make it easy to 
understand and use
;
; 
Is immensely valuable to all the major teams in the 
cybersecurity organization
;
; 
Can help every security function save time
;
; 
Can be handled mostly by existing security staff 
(with the right tools and support)
Why Is Threat Intelligence 
Important?
Today, the cybersecurity industry faces numerous challenges 
— increasingly persistent and devious threat actors; a daily 
flood of data full of extraneous information and false alarms 
across multiple, unconnected security systems; and a serious 
shortage of skilled professionals.
And although around $124 billion will be spent worldwide on 
cybersecurity products and services in 2019, throwing money 
at these problems won’t be enough. Right now:
;
; 
Three-quarters of security organizations are experi­
encing skills shortages
;
; 
44 percent of security alerts go uninvestigated
;
; 
66 percent of companies are breached at least once
Sources: Gartner Forecast Analysis: Information Security, 
Worldwide, 2Q18 Update; ESG & ISSA Research Report: The 
Life and Times of Cybersecurity Professionals 2018; Cisco 
2017 Annual Cybersecurity Report; Ponemon 2019 Cost of 
Data Breach Study

--- Página 21 ---
Chapter 1: What Is Threat Intelligence? | 5 
Digital technologies lie at the heart of nearly every industry 
today. The automation and greater connectedness they 
afford are revolutionizing the world, but they’re also bringing 
increased vulnerability to cyberattacks.
Threat intelligence is knowledge that allows you to prevent 
and mitigate attacks on digital systems. Rooted in data, threat 
intelligence provides context like who’s attacking you, what 
their motivation and capabilities are, and what indicators of 
compromise (IOCs) in your systems to look for. It helps you 
make informed decisions about your security.
Who Can Benefit From 
Threat Intelligence?
Everyone! Threat intelligence is widely imagined to be the 
domain of elite analysts. In reality, it adds value across secu­
rity functions for organizations of all sizes. For example:
;
; 
Security operations teams are routinely unable 
to process the overwhelming flow of alerts they 
receive. Threat intelligence can be integrated with 
the security solutions they already use, helping them 
automatically prioritize and filter alerts and other 
threats. 
;
; 
Vulnerability management teams need to 
accurately prioritize the most important vulnerabili­
ties. Threat intelligence provides access to external 
insights and context that  helps them differentiate 
immediate threats to their specific enterprise from 
merely potential threats. 
;
; 
Fraud prevention, risk analysis, and other 
high-level security staff are challenged to under­
stand the current threat landscape. Threat intel­
ligence provides key insights on threat actors, their 
intentions and targets, and their tactics, techniques, 
and procedures (TTPs).

--- Página 22 ---
6 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 1-1 lists metrics that show the dramatic improvements 
in security and efficiency that a threat intelligence program 
can provide.
Figure 1-1: A threat intelligence program can produce dramatic 
improvements in security and operational efficiency. Source of 
data: IDC
Section 2 of this book is devoted to exploring these and other 
security use cases in greater detail.
Data and Information 
Are Not Intelligence
Before we go any further, let’s clear up any confusion about 
data, information, and intelligence. 
These three terms are sometimes used without much care. 
For example, some threat feeds are advertised as intelligence 
when they are actually just packages of data. Frequently, 
organizations incorporate threat data feeds into their network 
only to find that they can’t process all the extra data, which 
only adds to the burden on analysts trying to triage threats. In 
contrast, threat intelligence lightens that burden by helping 
the analysts decide what to prioritize and what to ignore. The 
table in Figure 1-2 highlights important distinctions.

--- Página 23 ---
Chapter 1: What Is Threat Intelligence? | 7 
Data consists of discrete facts and statistics gathered as 
the basis for further analysis. 
Information is multiple data points combined to 
answer specific questions.
Intelligence analyzes data and information to uncover 
patterns and stories that inform decision-making.
Figure 1-2: Distinctions between data, information, and 
intelligence 
In cybersecurity:
;
; 
Data is usually just indicators such as IP addresses, 
URLs, or hashes. Data doesn’t tell us much without 
analysis. 
;
; 
Information answers questions like, “How many 
times has my organization been mentioned on social 
media this month?” Although this is a far more use­
ful output than the raw data, it still doesn’t directly 
inform a specific action.
;
; 
Intelligence is the product of a cycle of identifying 
questions and goals, collecting relevant data, pro­
cessing and analyzing that data, producing actionable 
intelligence, and distributing that intelligence. We’ll 
look at the threat intelligence lifecycle in greater 
depth in Chapter 2.
The relationship between data, information, and intelligence 
is illustrated in Figure 1-3.

--- Página 24 ---
8 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 1-3: The relationship between data, information, and 
intelligence
Two Types of Threat Intelligence
Threat intelligence is a broad concept, one that is really made 
up of two kinds of intelligence — operational and strategic. 
These two types of intelligence vary in their sources, the audi­
ences they serve, and the formats they appear in. 
The purpose in making this distinction is in recognizing that 
the various security functions have different goals and degrees 
of technical knowledge. Like we said above, intelligence 
needs to be actionable — but because the responsibilities of a 
vulnerability management team differ significantly from those 
of a CISO, “actionability” has distinct implications for each, 
and the form and content of the intelligence they’ll benefit the 
most from will vary.
Operational Threat Intelligence
Operational threat intelligence is knowledge about 
ongoing cyberattacks, events, and campaigns. It gives incident 
response teams specialized insights that help them under­
stand the nature, intent, and timing of specific attacks as they 
are occurring. It’s generally sourced from machines.

--- Página 25 ---
Chapter 1: What Is Threat Intelligence? | 9 
Operational intelligence is sometimes referred to as techni­
cal threat intelligence, because it usually includes technical 
information about attacks, such as which attack vectors are 
being used, what vulnerabilities are being exploited, and what 
command and control domains are being employed by attack­
ers. This kind of intelligence is often most useful to personnel 
directly involved in the defense of an organization, such as 
system architects, administrators, and security staff.
A common source of technical information is threat data 
feeds. These usually focus on a single type of threat indicator, 
such as malware hashes or suspicious domains. As we discuss 
below, threat data feeds supply input for threat intelligence, 
but by themselves are not threat intelligence.
TIP
One use of operational threat intelligence is to guide improve­
ments to existing security controls and processes and speed 
up incident response. Because operational intelligence can 
answer urgent questions unique to your organization — such 
as, “Is this critical vulnerability, which is being exploited in 
my industry, present in my systems?” — a solution that inte­
grates with data from your network is crucial.
Strategic Threat Intelligence
Strategic threat intelligence provides a wide overview of an 
organization’s threat landscape. It’s most helpful for inform­
ing high-level decisions by executives, and the content is 
generally business oriented and is presented through reports 
or briefings — materials that really can’t be generated by 
machines, but only by humans with expertise.
This kind of intelligence requires the human element because 
it takes time and thought to evaluate and test new adversary 
tactics, techniques, and procedures against existing security 
controls. Pieces of this process can be automated, but a human 
brain is largely required to complete the exercise.
Good strategic intelligence should provide insight into the 
risks associated with certain actions, broad patterns in threat 
actor tactics and targets, geopolitical events and trends, and 
similar topics.

--- Página 26 ---
10 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Common sources of information for strategic threat intel­
ligence include:
;
; 
Policy documents from nation-states or nongovern­
mental organizations
;
; 
News from local and national media, articles in 
industry- and subject-specific publications, and 
input from subject-matter experts
;
; 
White papers, research reports, and other content 
produced by security organizations
Organizations must set strategic threat intelligence require­
ments by asking focused, specific questions. Analysts with 
expertise outside of typical cybersecurity skills — in particular, 
a strong understanding of sociopolitical and business con­
cepts — are needed to gather and interpret strategic threat 
intelligence.
Some parts of the production of strategic threat intelligence 
should be automated. Although the final product is non-tech­
nical, producing effective strategic threat intelligence takes 
deep research and massive volumes of data, often across mul­
tiple languages. These challenges can make initial data collec­
tion and processing too difficult to perform manually, even for 
those rare analysts who possess the right language skills, tech­
nical background, and tradecraft. A threat intelligence solu­
tion that automates data collection and processing helps 
reduce this burden and allows analysts with less expertise to 
work more effectively.
The Role of Threat Data Feeds
We mentioned earlier that data is not intelligence, and that 
threat data feeds can overwhelm analysts already burdened 
with countless daily alerts and notifications. But when used 
correctly, threat data feeds can provide valuable raw material 
for threat intelligence. 
Threat data feeds are real-time streams of data that provide 
information on potential cyber threats and risks. They’re usu­
ally lists of simple indicators or artifacts focused on a single 
area of interest, like suspicious domains, hashes, bad IPs, or

--- Página 27 ---
Chapter 1: What Is Threat Intelligence? | 11 
malicious code. They can provide an easy way to get quick, 
real-time looks at the threat landscape.
But many feeds, especially the free ones, are filled with errors, 
redundancies, and false positives. That’s why it’s important to 
select high-quality data feeds.
Evaluating Threat Data Feeds
Use these criteria to assess threat 
data feeds for your organization:
Data sources: Cyber threat intelli-
gence feeds pull their data from all 
kinds of sources, many of which are 
not relevant for your organization. 
For example, you will get the most 
value from data gathered from 
organizations in your industry.
Transparency of sources: Knowing 
where the data is coming from will 
help you evaluate its relevance and 
usefulness.
Percentage of unique data: Some 
paid feeds are just collections of 
data coming from other feeds, so 
they list the same items several 
times.
Periodicity of data: How long is the 
data relevant? Is it related to spe-
cific, immediate activity, and does 
it provide strategic intelligence on 
long-term trends?
Measurable outcomes: Calculating 
the measurable outcomes of a 
particular feed usually involves 
tracking the correlation rate, which 
is the percentage of alerts that 
correspond with your internal 
telemetry in a given week, month, 
or quarter.
TIP
Instead of viewing dozens of feeds separately, use a threat 
intelligence platform that combines them all into a single feed, 
removes duplicates and false positives, compares them with 
internal telemetry, and generates prioritized alerts. The most 
powerful threat intelligence platforms even allow organiza­
tions to create custom threat intelligence feeds, or curate and 
set up automated alerting.
The Role of Private Channels 
and the Dark Web
Threat data feeds and publicly available information are not 
the only external sources of data for threat intelligence. Vital 
operational and strategic intelligence on specific attacks, 
attacker TTPs, political goals of hacktivists and state actors,

--- Página 28 ---
12 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
and other key topics can be gathered by infiltrating or break­
ing into private channels of communication used by threat 
groups. These include encrypted messaging apps and exclu­
sive forums on the dark web. 
However, there are barriers to gathering this kind of 
intelligence:
;
; 
Access: Threat groups may communicate over pri­
vate and encrypted channels, or require some proof 
of identification. 
;
; 
Language: Activity on many forums is carried out 
in languages like Russian, Chinese, Indonesian, or 
Arabic, using local slang and specialized jargon.
;
; 
Noise: It can be difficult or impossible to manually 
gather good intelligence from high-volume sources 
like chat rooms and social media.
;
; 
Obfuscation: To avoid detection, many threat 
groups employ obfuscation tactics like using 
codenames.
Overcoming these barriers requires a large investment in tools 
and expertise for monitoring private channels — or the use of 
threat intelligence service providers that have already made 
that investment.
TIP
Look for threat intelligence solutions and services that employ 
machine learning processes for automated data collection on a 
large scale. A solution that uses natural language processing, 
for example, can gather information from foreign-language 
sources without needing human expertise to decipher it.

--- Página 29 ---
Chapter 2
The Threat Intelligence 
Lifecycle
In this chapter
  Examine the phases of the threat intelligence lifecycle 
  Review sources of threat intelligence 
  Look at the roles of threat intelligence tools and human 
analysts 
“You have to believe in your process.” 
― Tom Brady
The Six Phases of the Threat 
Intelligence Lifecycle
T
hreat intelligence is built on analytic techniques honed 
over several decades by government and military agen­
cies. Traditional intelligence focuses on six distinct phases 
that make up what is called the “intelligence cycle”:Threat 
intelligence provides an antidote to many of these problems. 
Among other uses, it can be employed to filter out false 
alarms, speed up triage, and simplify incident analysis.
1.	 Direction
2.	 Collection
3.	 Processing
4.	 Analysis
5.	 Dissemination
6.	 Feedback

--- Página 30 ---
14 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 2-1 shows how those six phases align with threat 
intelligence.
Figure 2-1: Threat intelligence and the six phases of the intel­
ligence cycle. 
Direction
The direction phase of the lifecycle is when you set goals for 
the threat intelligence program. This involves understanding 
and articulating:
;
; 
The information assets and business processes that 
need to be protected
;
; 
The potential impacts of losing those assets or inter­
rupting those processes
;
; 
The types of threat intelligence that the security 
organization requires to protect assets and respond 
to threats
;
; 
Priorities about what to protect
Once high-level intelligence needs are determined, an orga­
nization can formulate questions that channel the need for 
information into discrete requirements. For example, if a goal 
is to understand likely adversaries, one logical question would 
be, “Which actors on underground forums are actively solicit­
ing data concerning our organization?”

--- Página 31 ---
Chapter 2: The Threat Intelligence Lifecycle | 15 
A Library of Goals
Recorded Future has created a list 
of pre-configured intelligence goals 
that includes the most common 
intelligence requirements of Global 
500 organizations. This list helps 
companies starting out with threat 
intelligence think about their issues 
and priorities and decide how 
threat intelligence can be plugged 
into their existing processes. 
Selected goals from this library are 
included in the appendix of this 
book.
Adversarial models such as the 
Lockheed-Martin Cyber Kill Chain 
and the MITRE Adversarial Tactics, 
Techniques & Common Knowledge 
(ATT&CK) matrix (discussed in 
Chapter 11), can also help compa-
nies focus on the types of threat 
intelligence they need to collect to 
prevent breaches.
Collection
Collection is the process of gathering information to address 
the most important intelligence requirements. Information 
gathering can occur organically through a variety of means, 
including:
;
; 
Pulling metadata and logs from internal networks 
and security devices
;
; 
Subscribing to threat data feeds from industry orga­
nizations and cybersecurity vendors
;
; 
Holding conversations and targeted interviews with 
knowledgeable sources
;
; 
Scanning open source news and blogs
;
; 
Scraping and harvesting websites and forums
;
; 
Infiltrating closed sources such as dark web forums
The data collected typically will be a combination of finished 
information, such as intelligence reports from cybersecurity 
experts and vendors, and raw data, like malware signatures or 
leaked credentials on a paste site.

--- Página 32 ---
16 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Threat Intelligence Sources
Technical sources (e.g., threat 
feeds) — Available in huge quanti-
ties, often for free. Technical 
sources are easy to integrate with 
existing security technologies but 
often contain a high proportion 
of false positives and outdated 
results.
Media (e.g., security websites, 
vendor research) — These sources 
often provide useful information 
about emerging threats but are 
hard to connect with technical 
indicators in order to measure risk.
Social media — Social channels of-
fer huge amounts of valuable data, 
but it comes at a price. False posi-
tives and misinformation are ram-
pant, so determining which insights 
are usable requires a tremendous 
amount of cross-referencing with 
other sources.
Threat actor forums — Specifically 
designed to host relevant discus-
sions, forums offer some of the 
most helpful insights available 
anywhere. Once again, though, 
analysis and cross-referencing are 
essential to determine what is truly 
valuable.
The dark web (including markets 
and forums) — While often the 
birthplace of hugely valuable 
intelligence, dark web sources 
can be extremely hard to access, 
particularly those that play host to 
serious criminal communities. 
You need multiple sources of intelligence to get a complete 
picture of potential and actual threats. As shown in Figure 2-1, 
they include internal sources like firewall and router logs, 
network packet capture tools, and vulnerability scans, techni­
cal sources such as vulnerability databases and threat data 
feeds, and human sources, including traditional and social 
media, cybersecurity forums and blogs, and dark web forums. 
Missing any one of these can slow down investigations and 
cause gaps in remediation.
TIP
Automate! Analysts should spend as little time as possible col­
lecting data, and as much time as possible evaluating and 
communicating threat information.
Confused about the difference between threat intelligence 
sources, feeds, platforms, and providers? Read the Recorded 
Future blog post “Threat Intelligence: Difference Between 
Platforms and Providers.”

--- Página 33 ---
Chapter 2: The Threat Intelligence Lifecycle | 17 
Processing
Processing is the transformation of collected information 
into a format usable by the organization. Almost all raw data 
collected needs to be processed in some manner, whether by 
humans or machines. 
Different collection methods often require different means 
of processing. Human reports may need to be correlated and 
ranked, deconflicted, and checked. An example might be 
extracting IP addresses from a security vendor’s report and 
adding them to a CSV file for importing to a security informa­
tion and event management (SIEM) product. In a more tech­
nical area, processing might involve extracting indicators from 
an email, enriching them with other information, and then 
communicating with endpoint protection tools for automated 
blocking.
TIP
Automate more! With the right tools, most processing work­
flows, as well as most collection processes, can be automated. 
For example, a security automation tool might identify a sus­
picious IOC, then conduct a sequence of checks to bring con­
text to the IOC. This saves the analyst from having to conduct 
those checks manually.
Analysis
Analysis is a human process that turns processed information 
into intelligence that can inform decisions. Depending on the 
circumstances, the decisions might involve whether to inves­
tigate a potential threat, what actions to take immediately to 
block an attack, how to strengthen security controls, or how 
much investment in additional security resources is justified.
Analysts must have a clear understanding of who is going to 
be using their intelligence and what decisions those people 
make. You want the intelligence you deliver to be perceived as 
actionable, not as academic. Most of this book is devoted to 
giving you a clear picture of exactly how threat intelligence 
can improve decision making and actions in different areas of 
cybersecurity.
The form in which the information is presented is especially 
important. It is useless and wasteful to collect and process

--- Página 34 ---
18 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
information and then deliver it in a form that can’t be under­
stood and used by the decision maker.
For example, if you want to communicate with non-technical 
leaders, your report must:
;
; 
Be concise (a one-page memo or a handful of slides)
;
; 
Avoid confusing and overly technical terms and jargon
;
; 
Articulate the issues in business terms (such as 
direct and indirect costs and impact on reputation)
;
; 
Include a recommended course of action
Some intelligence may need to be delivered in a variety of 
formats for different audiences, say, by a live video feed and 
a PowerPoint presentation. Not all intelligence needs to be 
digested via a formal report. Successful threat intelligence 
teams provide continual technical reporting to other security 
teams with external context around IOCs, malware, threat 
actors, vulnerabilities, and threat trends.
Dissemination
Dissemination involves getting the finished intelligence output 
to the places it needs to go. 
As illustrated in Figure 2-1, most cybersecurity organizations 
have at least six teams that can benefit from threat intel­
ligence. For each of these audiences you need to ask:
;
; 
What threat intelligence do they need, and how can 
external information support their activities?
;
; 
How should the intelligence be presented to make 
it easily understandable and actionable for that 
audience?
;
; 
How often should we provide updates and other 
information?
;
; 
Through what media should the intelligence be 
disseminated?
;
; 
How should we follow up if they have questions?

--- Página 35 ---
Chapter 2: The Threat Intelligence Lifecycle | 19 
Feedback
As you have no doubt gathered, we believe that it is critically 
important to understand your overall intelligence priorities 
and the requirements of the security teams that will be con­
suming the threat intelligence. Their needs guide all phases of 
the intelligence lifecycle and tell you:
;
; 
What types of data to collect
;
; 
How to process and enrich the data to turn it into 
useful information
;
; 
How to analyze the information and present it as 
actionable intelligence
;
; 
To whom each type of intelligence must be dissemi­
nated, how quickly it needs to be disseminated, and 
how fast to respond to questions
You need regular feedback to make sure you understand the 
requirements of each group, and to make adjustments as their 
requirements and priorities change.
TIP
For every “customer” team, establish both a channel for fast, 
informal feedback (such as an email address, an internal 
forum, or a team collaboration tool) and a formal, structured 
surveying process (such as an online survey or a quarterly 
face-to-face meeting). The informal channel helps you react 
and adjust immediately, while the structured survey ensures 
that you get input from everyone and can track your progress 
over time.
Tools and People
Tools are essential to automating the collection, processing, 
and dissemination steps in the intelligence lifecycle and to 
supporting and accelerating analysis. Without the right tools, 
analysts will spend all their time on the mechanical aspects of 
these tasks and never have time for real analysis.

--- Página 36 ---
20 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Most mature threat intelligence groups leverage two types of 
tools:
;
; 
Threat intelligence solutions that are designed to 
collect, process, and analyze all types of threat data 
from internal, technical, and human sources
;
; 
Existing security tools, such as SIEMs and security 
analytics tools, which collect and correlate security 
events and log data
Human analysts are equally if not more important. You can’t 
rely on tools to interview security experts and probe closed 
dark web forums, and you need people to analyze and synthe­
size intelligence for the people in the security organization and 
management who will consume it.
The analysts do not need to belong to a central, elite threat 
intelligence department. While someone needs to take an 
organization-wide view of the threat intelligence function, 
make decisions about resources and priorities, and track 
progress, we have seen many successful organizational struc­
tures. You could have a central group with dedicated threat 
intelligence analysts, or a small group inside the incident 
response (IR) or security operations center (SOC) organiza­
tions. Alternatively, members of the different cybersecurity 
groups can be responsible for analyzing threat intelligence for 
their colleagues.
In Chapter 12 we discuss how the organizational structure 
often evolves as the threat intelligence function matures. In 
Chapter 13 we provide advice on how to organize a core threat 
intelligence team.

--- Página 37 ---
Section 2: Applications of 
Threat Intelligence

--- Página 39 ---
Chapter 3
Threat Intelligence for 
Security Operations
In this chapter
  See how “alert fatigue” risks undoing the good work of security 
operations centers (SOCs)
  Understand the value of context for improving triage 
  Learn how threat intelligence can lead to less wasted time and 
better decisions by the SOC team 
“Being the worst makes you first.” 
― Sign in hospital emergency room
M
ost security operations center (SOC) teams find them­
selves hostages to the huge volumes of alerts generated 
by the networks they monitor. Triaging these alerts takes too 
long, and many are never investigated at all. “Alert fatigue” 
leads analysts to take alerts less seriously than they should. 
Threat intelligence provides an antidote to many of these 
problems. Among other uses, it can be employed to filter out 
false alarms, speed up triage, and simplify incident analysis.
Responsibilities of the SOC Team
On paper, the responsibilities of the SOC team seem simple:
;
; 
Monitor for potential threats
;
; 
Detect suspicious network activity
;
; 
Contain active threats
;
; 
Remediate using available technology

--- Página 40 ---
24 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
When a suspicious event is detected, the SOC team inves­
tigates, then works with other security teams to reduce the 
impact and severity of the attack. You can think of the roles 
and responsibilities within a SOC as being similar to those of 
emergency services teams responding to 911 calls, as shown in 
Figure 3-1. 




	



							
	
		
		
				
			


	
	

					
	
		
		
			
		
			
	



				
				
		
		
					
Figure 3-1: The roles and responsibilities of emergency services 
teams and SOC teams are similar. 
The Overwhelming Volume of Alerts
Over the past several years, most enterprises have added new 
types of threat detection technologies to their networks. Every 
tool sounds the alarm when it sees anomalous or suspicious 
behavior. In combination, these tools can create a cacophony 
of security alerts. Security analysts are simply unable to 
review, prioritize, and investigate all these alerts on their own. 
Because of alert fatigue, all too often they ignore alerts, chase 
false positives, and make mistakes.
Research confirms the magnitude of these problems. Industry 
analyst firm ESG asked cybersecurity professionals about 
their biggest security operations challenge, and 35 percent 
said it was “keeping up with the volume of security alerts.” In 
its 2018 State of the SOC report, SIEM provider Exabeam 
revealed that SOCs are understaffed according to 45 percent 
of professionals who work in them, and of those, 63 percent

--- Página 41 ---
Chapter 3: Threat Intelligence for Security Operations | 25 
think they could use anywhere from two to 10 additional 
employees. Cisco’s 2018 Security Capabilities Benchmark 
study found that organizations can investigate only 56 percent 
of the security alerts they receive on a given day, and of those 
investigated alerts, only 34 percent are deemed legitimate 
(Figure 3-2).



	

	


















	
	
Figure 3-2: Many threat alerts are not investigated or remediated. 
(Source: Cisco)
Context Is King
At its heart, threat intelligence for the SOC is about enriching 
internal alerts with the external information and context 
necessary to make risk-based decisions. Context is critical for 
rapid triage, and also very important for scoping and contain­
ing incidents.

--- Página 42 ---
26 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Triage requires lots of context
A huge part of an average SOC analyst’s day is spent respond­
ing to alerts generated by internal security systems, such as 
SIEM or EDR technologies. Sources of internal data are vital 
in identifying potentially malicious network activity or a data 
breach. 
Unfortunately, this data is often difficult to interpret in isola­
tion. Determining if an alert is relevant and urgent requires 
gathering related information (context) from a wide variety 
of internal system logs, network devices, and security tools 
(Figure 3-3), and from external threat databases. Searching 
all of these threat data sources for context around each alert is 
hugely time consuming.
	&!"!
# "&" # "

$ 


"
!
!





!


$





!







!
!







#





!
!



!

!


!

 








"
!

	
!




"
!




!!

!





!












!


!


#!!! '
 !!
# &
"$"&"
# &
" 
 !""
 $  $
" "% 
"$"&
"% 
"!
!!"$"&
&! 
 !""
 "
$"!
# "

!
"#
""#!
Figure 3-3: Key aspects of security monitoring and internal 
sources of context. (Source: UK NCSC)

--- Página 43 ---
Chapter 3: Threat Intelligence for Security Operations | 27 
Use case: Correlating 
and enriching alerts
An analyst attempting to triage an initial alert without access 
to enough context is like a person trying to understand a news 
story after reading just the headline. Even when the analyst 
has access to external information in the form of threat feeds 
(Figure 3-4), that information is very hard to assimilate and 
correlate with other data related to the alert.
Figure 3-4: It is very difficult to find relevant information in a raw 
threat feed and correlate it with other data related to an alert.
Threat intelligence, or more precisely, information delivered 
through a threat intelligence solution, can completely 
transform the situation. Such a solution has the capability to 
automatically enrich threat data into intelligence and correlate 
it with alerts, as illustrated in Figure 3-5. The context provided 
might include first and most recent references to a piece of 
malware or a suspicious IP address, the number of sightings, 
associations with attack types and specific threat actors, and 
descriptions of the behavior of the malware or the uses of the 
IP address (say, as part of a botnet).

--- Página 44 ---
28 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 3-5: A threat intelligence solution can automatically enrich 
alerts with context such as previous sightings, associations 
with attack types and threat actors, and risk scores. (Source: 
Recorded Future)
This enrichment enables SOC analysts to quickly identify the 
most significant threats and take immediate, informed actions 
to resolve them.
Enrichment allows relatively junior analysts in the SOC to 
“punch above their weight” by making connections that other­
wise would have required more experience. It also provides a 
form of accelerated on-the-job training by providing in-depth 
information about the latest threats.
As an example of upskilling relatively junior analysts, suppose 
an alert is generated when an unknown external IP address 
attempts to connect over TCP port 445. Experienced analysts 
might know that a recent exploit for SMB has been used by 
ransomware to propagate itself and would identify the IP as 
likely compromised based on the owner, location, and open 
source data. Newer analysts might not be able to make these 
connections unaided, but contextualized threat intelligence 
could show them that other devices on the network use SMB 
on port 445 to transfer files and data between servers. It could

--- Página 45 ---
Chapter 3: Threat Intelligence for Security Operations | 29 
also inform them that the new exploit and ransomware have 
been associated with that IP address.
Improving the “Time to No”
As important as it is for SOC analysts to gather information 
about real threats more quickly and accurately, there is an 
argument to be made that the ability to rapidly rule out false 
alarms is even more important. 
Threat intelligence provides SOC staff with additional infor­
mation and context needed to triage alerts promptly and with 
far less effort. It can prevent analysts from wasting hours 
pursuing alerts based on:
;
; 
Actions that are more likely to be innocuous rather 
than malicious
;
; 
Attacks that are not relevant to that enterprise
;
; 
Attacks for which defenses and controls are already 
in place
Some threat intelligence solutions automatically perform 
much of this filtering by customizing risk feeds to ignore 
or downgrade alerts that do not match organization- and 
industry-specific criteria. 
Threat Intelligence Makes IT Security 
Teams 32 Percent More Efficient
A survey and analysis by IDC found 
that a threat intelligence solution 
enabled IT security teams to 
reduce the time needed for threat 
investigation, threat resolution, 
and security report compilation 
by 32 percent, saving an average 
of $640,000 annually. In addition, 
the teams in the survey were 
able to detect 22 percent more 
threats before they impacted the 
organization, and resolve incidents 
63 percent faster. To read the full 
IDC white paper, go to https://
go.recordedfuture.com/idc.

--- Página 46 ---
30 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Beyond Triage
As well as accelerating triage, threat intelligence can help SOC 
teams simplify incident analysis and containment.
For example, by revealing that a certain piece of malware is 
often used by cybercriminals as the first step in an attack on 
financial applications, the SOC team can start monitoring 
those applications more closely and home in on other evi­
dence of that attack type.

--- Página 47 ---
Chapter 4
Threat Intelligence for 
Incident Response

In this chapter
  Learn how threat intelligence can minimize reactivity 
  Review characteristics of threat intelligence solutions that 
make them effective for meeting incident response challenges
  Explore use cases for using threat intelligence for incident 
response
“Care shouldn’t start in the emergency room.” 
― James Douglas
O
f all security groups, incident response teams are per­
haps the most highly stressed. Among the reasons:
;
; 
Cyber incident volumes have increased steadily for 
two decades. 
;
; 
Threats have become more complex and harder to 
analyze; staying on top of the shifting threat land­
scape has become a major task in itself.
;
; 
When responding to security incidents, analysts are 
forced to spend a lot of time manually checking and 
disseminating data from disparate sources.
;
; 
Containment of attacks and eradication of vulner­
abilities continually grows more difficult.

--- Página 48 ---
32 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
As a result, incident response teams routinely operate under 
enormous time pressures and often are unable to contain 
cyber incidents promptly.
Continuing Challenges
While it’s difficult to be precise about the number of incidents 
experienced by a typical organization, there is no doubt 
that cyberattack volume is growing rapidly. According to 
SonicWall, the global volume of malware attacks increased by 
more than 18 percent during 2017 alone. Other popular attack 
vectors, such as encrypted traffic and phishing, are also seeing 
substantial increases in volume every year. While some of this 
growing pressure is mitigated by preventative technologies, a 
huge additional strain is nonetheless being placed on incident 
response teams because of the following factors.
A skills gap
Incident response is not an entry-level security function. 
It encompasses a vast swath of skills, including static and 
dynamic malware analysis, reverse engineering, digital 
forensics, and more. It requires analysts who have experience 
in the industry and can be relied upon to perform complex 
operations under pressure.
The highly publicized cybersecurity skills gap has grown 
consistently wider over the past decade. According to a 2017 
research report by ISSA, almost three-quarters of security 
professionals claim their organization is affected by the global 
skills shortage. In their most recent Global Information 
Security Workforce Study, Frost & Sullivan predicts the skills 
gap will grow to 1.8 million workers by 2022.
Too many alerts, too little time
In tandem with the lack of available personnel, incident 
response teams are bombarded by an unmanageable num­
ber of alerts. According to the Ponemon “Cost of Malware 
Containment” report, security teams can expect to log almost 
17,000 malware alerts in a typical week. That’s more than 100 
alerts per hour for a team that operates 24/7. And those are 
only the alerts from malware incidents.

--- Página 49 ---
Chapter 4: Threat Intelligence for Incident Response | 33 
To put these figures in perspective, all these alerts can lead 
security teams to spend over 21,000 man-hours each year 
chasing down false positives. That’s 2,625 standard eight-hour 
shifts needed just to distinguish bad alerts from good ones.
Time to response is rising
When you have too few skilled personnel and too many alerts, 
there’s only one outcome: the time to resolve genuine security 
incidents will rise. According to analysis of source data from 
a recent Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report, while 
median time to incident detection is a fairly reasonable four 
hours, median time to resolution (MTTR) is more than four 
days.
Of course, cybercriminals have no such time constraints. 
Once they gain a foothold inside a target network, time to 
compromise is usually measured in minutes. We will discuss 
this more in Chapter 6.
A piecemeal approach
Most organizations’ security groups have grown organically 
in parallel with increases in cyber risk. As a result, they have 
added security technologies and processes piecemeal, without 
a strategic design.
While this ad hoc approach is perfectly normal, it forces 
incident response teams to spend a lot of time aggregating 
data and context from a variety of security technologies (e.g., 
SIEM, EDR, and firewall logs) and threat feeds. This effort 
significantly extends response times and increases the likeli­
hood that mistakes will be made.
You can find the original “Cost of Malware Containment” 
report on the Ponemon website.

--- Página 50 ---
34 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
The Reactivity Problem
Once an alert is flagged, it must be triaged, remediated, and 
followed up as quickly as possible to minimize cyber risk.
Consider a typical incident response process:
1.	
Incident detection — Receive an alert from a 
SIEM, EDR, or similar product.
2.	
Discovery — Determine what’s happened and how 
to respond.
3.	
Triage and containment — Take immediate 
actions to mitigate the threat and minimize damage.
4.	
Remediation — Repair damage and remove 
infections. 
5.	
Push to BAU — Pass the incident to “business as 
usual” teams for final actions.
Notice how reactive this process is. For most organizations, 
nearly all the work necessary to remediate an incident is 
back-loaded, meaning it can’t be completed until after an alert 
is flagged. Although this is inevitable to some degree, it is far 
from ideal when incident response teams are already strug­
gling to resolve incidents quickly enough.
Minimizing Reactivity in 
Incident Response
To reduce response times, incident response teams must 
become less reactive. Two areas where advanced preparation 
can be especially helpful are identification of probable threats 
and prioritization.
Identification of probable threats
If an incident response team can identify the most commonly 
faced threats in advance, they can develop strong, consistent 
processes to cope with them. This preparation dramatically 
reduces the time the team needs to contain individual inci­
dents, prevents mistakes, and frees up analysts to cope with 
new and unexpected threats when they arise.

--- Página 51 ---
Chapter 4: Threat Intelligence for Incident Response | 35 
Prioritization
Not all threats are equal. If incident response teams can 
understand which threat vectors pose the greatest level of 
risk to their organization, they can allocate their time and 
resources accordingly.
To find out how security experts use threat intelligence to 
reduce reactivity in incident response, watch the joint 
Recorded Future and LIFARS webinar “Fuel Incident 
Response With Threat Intelligence to Lower Breach Impact.”
Strengthening Incident Response 
With Threat Intelligence
It should be clear from our discussion so far that security 
technologies by themselves can’t do enough to reduce pres­
sure on human analysts.
Threat intelligence can minimize the pressure on incident 
response teams and address many of the issues we have been 
reviewing by:
;
; 
Automatically identifying and dismissing false posi­
tive alerts
;
; 
Enriching alerts with real-time context from across 
the open and dark web
;
; 
Assembling and comparing information from inter­
nal and external data sources to identify genuine 
threats
;
; 
Scoring threats according to the organization’s 
specific needs and infrastructure
In other words, threat intelligence provides incident response 
teams with exactly the actionable insights they need to make 
faster, better decisions, while holding back the tide of irrel­
evant and unreliable alerts that typically make their job so 
difficult.

--- Página 52 ---
36 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Threat Intelligence in Action
Let’s look at three use cases and one abuse case that show how 
threat intelligence affects incident response teams in the real 
world.
Use case: Prepare 
processes in advance
As we noted earlier, typical incident response processes are 
highly reactive, with most activity happening only after an 
incident occurs. This extends the time needed to scope and 
remediate incidents.
Threat intelligence can help incident response teams prepare 
for threats in advance by providing:
;
; 
A comprehensive, up-to-date picture of the threat 
landscape
;
; 
Information about popular threat actor tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTPs)
;
; 
Highlights of industry- and area-specific attack 
trends
Using this intelligence, incident response teams can develop 
and maintain strong processes for the most common incidents 
and threats. Having these processes available speeds up 
incident discovery, triage, and containment. It also greatly 
improves the consistency and reliability of actions across the 
incident response function.
Use case: Scope and 
contain incidents
When an incident occurs, incident response analysts must 
determine:
1.	
What happened
2.	
What the incident might mean for the organization
3.	
Which actions to take

--- Página 53 ---
Chapter 4: Threat Intelligence for Incident Response | 37 
All three of these factors must be analyzed as quickly as pos­
sible with a high degree of accuracy. Threat intelligence can 
help by:
;
; 
Automatically dismissing false positives, enabling 
teams to focus on genuine security incidents
;
; 
Enriching incidents with related information from 
across the open and dark web, making it easier to 
determine how much of a threat they pose and how 
the organization might be affected
;
; 
Providing details about the threat and insights about 
the attacker TTPs, helping the team make fast and 
effective containment and remediation decisions
Is Time Your Friend or Enemy?
Ever wondered how the balance 
of power fluctuates between at-
tackers and defenders as time goes 
by? To find out, read the Recorded 
Future blog post “The 4th in the 
5th: Temporal Aspects of Cyber 
Operations” by the grugq.
Use case: Remediate data 
exposure and stolen assets
It’s common for organizations to take a long time to realize a 
breach has occurred. According to the “Ponemon 2018 Cost of 
a Data Breach Study,” organizations in the United States take 
an average of 196 days to detect a breach.
Not surprisingly, stolen data and proprietary assets often turn 
up for sale on the dark web before their rightful owners realize 
what’s happened.
A powerful threat intelligence capability can be a tremendous 
advantage. It can alert you to a breach by providing early 
warning that:
;
; 
Your assets are exposed online
;
; 
Someone is offering your assets for sale

--- Página 54 ---
38 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Obtaining this intelligence in real time is vital because it will 
enable you to contain the incident as quickly as possible and 
help you identify when and how your network was breached.
Abuse case: Half measures 
are worse than nothing
We want to caution you about one “abuse case” where threat 
intelligence can actually undermine incident response.
At the start of their threat intelligence journey, some organiza­
tions opt for a minimalist solution such as a threat intelligence 
solution paired with a variety of free threat feeds. They might 
believe that this “dip the toes in the water” approach will 
minimize up-front costs.
While this type of implementation arms incident response 
teams with some actionable intelligence, it usually makes 
things worse by forcing analysts to wade through vast quanti­
ties of false positives and irrelevant alerts. To fully address the 
primary incident response pain points, a threat intelligence 
capability must be comprehensive, relevant, contextualized, 
and integrated. 
Essential Characteristics of Threat 
Intelligence for Incident Response
Now it’s time for us to examine the characteristics of a power­
ful threat intelligence capability, and how they address the 
greatest pain points of incident response teams.
Comprehensive
To be valuable to incident response teams, threat intelligence 
must be captured automatically from the widest possible 
range of locations across open sources, technical feeds, and 
the dark web. Otherwise analysts will be forced to conduct 
their own manual research to ensure nothing important has 
been missed.
Imagine an analyst needs to know whether an IP address has 
been associated with malicious activity. If she is confident that 
her threat intelligence has been drawn from a comprehensive 
range of threat sources, she can query the data instantly and

--- Página 55 ---
Chapter 4: Threat Intelligence for Incident Response | 39 
be sure the result will be accurate. If she isn’t confident, she 
will have to spend time manually checking the IP address 
against several threat data sources. Figure 4-1 shows how 
threat intelligence might connect an IP address with the 
Trickbot malware. This kind of intelligence can be correlated 
with internal network logs to reveal indicators of compromise.
Figure 4-1: Threat intelligence connecting an IP address with the 
Trickbot malware. (Source: Recorded Future)
While they are often used interchangeably, threat intelligence, 
information, and data aren’t the same thing. To find out where 
the differences lie, read the Recorded Future blog post “Threat 
Intelligence, Information, and Data: What Is the Difference?”
Relevant
It’s impossible to avoid all false positives when working to 
identify and contain incidents. But threat intelligence should 
help incident response teams quickly identify and purge false 
positives generated by security technologies such as SIEM and 
EDR products.

--- Página 56 ---
40 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
There are two categories of false positives to consider:
1.	
Alerts that are relevant to an organization but are 
inaccurate or unhelpful
2.	
Alerts that are accurate and/or interesting but 
aren’t relevant to the organization
Both types have the potential to waste an enormous amount of 
incident response analysts’ time.
Advanced threat intelligence products are now employing 
machine learning technology to identify and discard false 
positives automatically and draw analysts’ attention to the 
most important (i.e., most relevant) intelligence.
If you don’t choose your threat intelligence technology care­
fully, your team can waste a great deal of time on intelligence 
that’s inaccurate, outdated, or irrelevant to your organization.
Contextualized
Not all threats are created equal. Even among relevant threat 
alerts, some will inevitably be more urgent and important 
than the rest. An alert from a single source could be both accu­
rate and relevant, but still not particularly high in priority. 
That is why context is so important: it provides critical clues 
about which alerts are most likely to be significant to your 
organization.
Contextual information related to an alert might include:
;
; 
Corroboration from multiple sources that the same 
type of alert has been associated with recent attacks
;
; 
Confirmation that it has been associated with threat 
actors known to be active in your industry
;
; 
A timeline showing that the alert occurred slightly 
before or after other events linked with attacks
Modern machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) tech­
nologies make it possible for a threat intelligence solution to 
consider multiple sources concurrently and determine which 
alerts are most important to a specific organization.

--- Página 57 ---
Chapter 4: Threat Intelligence for Incident Response | 41 
Integrated
Among the most critical functions of a threat intelligence 
system is the ability to integrate with a broad range of security 
tools, including SIEM and incident response solutions, exam­
ine the alerts they generate, and:
;
; 
Determine whether each alert should be dismissed 
as a false positive
;
; 
Score the alert according to its importance
;
; 
Enrich the alert with valuable extra context
This integration eliminates the need for analysts to manually 
compare each alert to information in diverse security and 
threat intelligence tools. Even more important, integration 
and automated processes can filter out a huge number of false 
positives without any checking by a human analyst. The 
amount of time and frustration this capability saves makes it 
perhaps the single greatest benefit of threat intelligence for 
incident response teams.

--- Página 59 ---
Chapter 5
Threat Intelligence for 
Vulnerability Management

In this chapter
  Examine the current challenges in addressing vulnerabilities 
based on actual risk 
  Learn how vulnerability intelligence delivers insights into 
threat actor behaviors 
  See how risk-based intelligence streamlines the operational 
elements of vulnerability management
“The acknowledgment of our weakness is the first step in 
repairing our loss.” 
― Thomas a Kempis
V
ulnerability management is not glamorous, but it is one 
of the very few ways you can be proactive in securing 
your organization. Its importance as a function cannot be 
overstated.
The key to success in vulnerability management is to shift the 
thinking of your security teams from trying to patch every­
thing to making risk-based decisions. That is critical because 
the vast ocean of vulnerabilities disclosed each year stretches 
to the breaking point the teams responsible for identifying 
vulnerable assets and deploying patches. And the key to mak­
ing good risk-based decisions is taking advantage of more 
sources of threat intelligence.

--- Página 60 ---
44 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
The Vulnerability Problem 
by the Numbers
According to research from the analyst firm Gartner, Inc., 
about 8,000 vulnerabilities a year were disclosed over the past 
decade. The number rose only slightly from year to year, and 
only about one in eight were actually exploited. However, dur­
ing the same period, the amount of new software coming into 
use grew immensely, and the number of threats has increased 
exponentially.
In other words, although the number of breaches and threats 
has increased over the past 10 years, only a small percentage 
were based on new vulnerabilities. As Gartner put it, “More 
threats are leveraging the same small set of vulnerabilities.”
Zero day does not mean top priority
Zero-day threats regularly draw an outsize amount of atten­
tion. However, the vast majority of “new” threats labeled as 
zero day are actually variations on a theme, exploiting the 
same old vulnerabilities in slightly different ways. Further, 
the data shows that the number of vulnerabilities actually 
exploited on day zero make up only about 0.4 percent of all 
vulnerabilities exploited during the last decade. 
The implication is that the most effective approach to vulner­
ability management is not to focus on zero-day threats, but 
rather to identify and patch the vulnerabilities specific to the 
software your organization uses.
Time is of the essence
Threat actors have gotten quicker at exploiting vulnerabilities. 
According to Gartner, the average time it takes between the 
identification of a vulnerability and the appearance of an 
exploit in the wild has dropped from 45 days to 15 days over 
the last decade. 
This has two implications: 
1.	
You have roughly two weeks to patch or remediate 
your systems against a new exploit.
2.	
If you can’t patch in that timeframe, you should have 
a plan to mitigate the damage.

--- Página 61 ---
Chapter 5: Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability Management | 45 
Research from IBM X-Force shows that if a vulnerability 
is not exploited within two weeks to three months after it 
is announced, it is statistically unlikely that it ever will be. 
Therefore “old” vulnerabilities are usually not a priority for 
patching.
Exploits usually target the most widely used technologies. An 
episode of the Recorded Future podcast entitled “7 of the Top 
10 Vulnerabilities Target Microsoft” explains why.
All of these statistics point to one conclusion: your goal should 
not be to patch the most vulnerabilities, or even the most 
zero-day threats, but rather to identify and address the threats 
most likely to be exploited against your organization.
Assess Risk Based on Exploitability
Let’s use a metaphor: if patching vulnerabilities to keep your 
network safe is like getting vaccines to protect yourself from 
disease, then you need to decide which vaccinations are priori­
ties and which are unnecessary. You may need a flu shot every 
season to stay healthy, but there’s no need to stay vaccinated 
against yellow fever or malaria unless you will be exposed to 
them. 
That’s why you have to do your research: one of the greatest 
values of a threat intelligence solution is that it identifies the 
specific vulnerabilities that represent risk to your organization 
and gives you visibility into their likelihood of exploitation.
Figure 5-1 illustrates the point. Out of the thousands of vul­
nerabilities that are currently disclosed, hundreds are being 
exploited. And it’s true that at least some of those vulnerabilities 
probably exist in your environment. But the only ones you really 
need to worry about are those that lie within the intersection of 
those two categories.

--- Página 62 ---
46 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 5-1: The biggest risks are vulnerabilities that are present 
in your organization and currently being exploited. (Source: 
Gartner)
Severity ratings can be misleading
A common mistake in managing vulnerabilities is to focus on 
ranking threats in terms of severity. Ranking and classification 
systems like Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) 
naming and Common Vulnerability Scoring Systems (CVSSs) 
don’t take into account whether threat actors are actually 
exploiting vulnerabilities right now in your industry or loca­
tions. Relying solely on vulnerability severity is like getting a 
vaccine for the bubonic plague before a flu shot because the 
plague killed more people at some point in history.
The Genesis of Threat Intelligence: 
Vulnerability Databases
Vulnerability databases consolidate information on disclosed 
vulnerabilities and also score their exploitability. 
In fact, one of the very first forms of threat intelligence was 
NIST’s National Vulnerability Database (NVD). It centralized 
information on disclosed vulnerabilities to help make it easier 
for organizations to see if they were likely to be affected. For 
more than 20 years, the NVD has collected information on 
more than 100,000 vulnerabilities, making it an invaluable

--- Página 63 ---
Chapter 5: Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability Management | 47 
source for information security professionals. Other nations, 
including China and Russia, have followed NIST’s lead by set­
ting up vulnerability databases. 
You can find the NIST NVD at https://nvd.nist.gov/. A catalog 
of vulnerability databases is published by the industry organi­
zation FIRST: https://www.first.org/global/sigs/vrdx/
vdb-catalog.
However, there are two significant limitations to most vulner­
ability databases:
1.	 They focus on technical exploitability rather than 
active exploitation.
2.	 They are not updated fast enough to provide warning 
of some quickly spreading threats.
Exploitability versus exploitation
Information in the vulnerability databases is almost entirely 
focused on technical exploitability, a judgment of how likely 
it is that exploiting a particular vulnerability will result in 
greater or lesser damage to systems and networks. In the 
NVD, this is measured through the CVSS scoring system. 
But technical exploitability and active exploitation are not the 
same thing. CVSS base scores provide a metric that’s reason­
ably accurate and easy to understand — provided you know 
what information the score is conveying. But unless a base 
score is modified by a temporal score or an environmental 
score, it really only tells you how bad the vulnerability is hypo­
thetically, not whether it’s actually being exploited in the wild. 
Figure 5-2 shows the kind of threat intelligence available 
about a vulnerability and the risk it poses. In this case you can 
also see how reports involving the CVE are appearing before it 
has been given a CVSS score by NVD.

--- Página 64 ---
48 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 5-2: Threat intelligence related to a vulnerability. (Source: Recorded 
Future)
An object lesson in the difference between the NVD’s “official 
risk” and “real risk” from a vulnerability in the wild is CVE-
2017-0022. Despite its having a CVSS severity score of only 
4.3 (in the medium range), Recorded Future recently included 
it in a list of the top 10 vulnerabilities used by cybercriminals. 
The real risk is very high because threat actors have added this 
vulnerability to the widespread Neutrino Exploit Kit, where it 
performs a critical role checking whether security software is 
installed on a target system. 
Next week versus now
Another shortcoming of many vulnerability databases is lack 
of timeliness. For example, 75 percent of disclosed vulner­
abilities appear on other online sources before they appear in 
the NVD, and on average it takes those vulnerabilities a week 
to show up there. This is a very serious problem, because it 
handicaps security teams in the race to patch before adversar­
ies can exploit, as illustrated in Figure 5-3.
The informal way in which vulnerabilities are disclosed and 
announced contributes to the delay in recognizing them in 
vulnerability databases. Typically, a vendor or researcher dis­

--- Página 65 ---
Chapter 5: Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability Management | 49 
closes the vulnerability to the NVD, which assigns a CVE and 
begins an analysis. In the meantime, the vendor or researcher 
publishes more information on its own blog or a social media 
account. Good luck collating data from these disparate and 
hard-to-find sources before criminal actors develop proof-of-
concept malware and add it to exploit kits!
#
 
 
!


$%#&("&
	

	

	


*
&%$	$%&
!!!"'!$&)
$" 	$ 
	
! #

	 

 #!
)%&""!&%)!
!"!
%
 #
  %
$

## 
!
!"'!$&)
#

#
****
 
! 
#"
" 
 
!
	

*
&%$	$%&
$%#&("&


	
Figure 5-3: The race between security professionals and 
adversaries.
For research on the lag in reporting vulnerabilities and its 
implications, see the Recorded Future blog post “The Race 
Between Security Professionals and Adversaries.”
Threat Intelligence and Real Risk
The most effective way to assess the true risk of a vulnerability 
to your organization is to combine:
;
; 
Internal vulnerability scanning data
;
; 
External intelligence from a breadth of sources
;
; 
An understanding of why threat actors are targeting 
certain vulnerabilities and ignoring others

--- Página 66 ---
50 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Internal vulnerability scanning
Almost every vulnerability management team scans their 
internal systems for vulnerabilities, correlates the results with 
information reported in vulnerability databases, and uses the 
result to determine what should be patched. This is a basic 
use of operational threat intelligence, even if we don’t usually 
think of it that way. 
Conventional scanning is an excellent way to de-prioritize 
vulnerabilities that don’t appear on your systems. By itself, 
however, scanning is not an adequate way to accurately priori­
tize vulnerabilities that are found.
Risk milestones for vulnerabilities
One powerful way to assess the risk of a vulnerability is to look 
at how far it has progressed from initial identification to avail­
ability, weaponization, and commoditization in exploit kits. 
The level of real risk rises dramatically as it passes through the 
milestones shown in Figure 5-4. Broad-based threat intelli­
gence can reveal the progress of a vulnerability along this path. 
	


(!'
  
" 

!

	#!%
&


!&
$!! 
Figure 5-4: Real risk rises dramatically when vulnerabilities 
progress to weaponization and commoditization.
Understanding the adversary
As discussed elsewhere in this book, good threat intelligence 
should not simply provide information in the form of scores

--- Página 67 ---
Chapter 5: Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability Management | 51 
and statistics, but also a deeper understanding of how and 
why threat actors are targeting certain vulnerabilities and 
ignoring others. Below we discuss sources of intelligence that 
can contribute to this understanding.
How to Create Meaningful Risk Scores
What factors beyond technical 
characteristics can be used to 
calculate risk scores of vulnerabili-
ties? Recorded Future’s native risk 
scoring system incorporates data 
about criminal adoption, patterns 
in exploit sharing, and the number 
of links to malware. This informa-
tion often comes from sources that 
are difficult to access, like forums 
on the dark web.
Sources of Intelligence
Data from asset scans and external vulnerability databases 
are only the starting points for information that can help you 
assess the risk of vulnerabilities. Threat intelligence should 
include data from a wide range of sources, or analysts risk 
missing emerging vulnerabilities until it’s too late. 
Valuable sources of information for assessing true risk to your 
business include:
;
; 
Information security sites, including vendor 
blogs, official disclosure information on vulnerabili­
ties, and security news sites
;
; 
Social media, where link sharing provides 
jumping-off points for uncovering useful intelligence
;
; 
Code repositories such as GitHub, which yield 
insights into the development of proof-of-concept 
code for vulnerabilities
;
; 
Paste sites such as Pastebin and Ghostbin (some­
times wrongly defined as dark web locations), which 
often house lists of exploitable vulnerabilities
;
; 
The dark web, composed of communities and 
marketplaces with a bar to entry where exploits are 
developed, shared, and sold

--- Página 68 ---
52 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
;
; 
Forums with no bar to entry or requirement to 
be using specific software, where threat actors 
exchange information on vulnerabilities and exploits
;
; 
Technical feeds, which deliver data streams of 
potentially malicious indicators that add useful con­
text around the activities of malware and exploit kits
Vulnerability Chatter on the Dark Web
It’s not easy to eavesdrop on the 
channels through which threat 
actors communicate and operate:
•	 Underground forums are dif-
ficult to find (after all, there’s 
no Google for the dark web). 
•	 Threat actors change locations 
whenever they feel their 
anonymity is at risk. 
•	 Finding the crumb that might 
be relevant to your security is 
no small endeavor. 
•	 There are likely to be bars 
to entry, either financial or 
kudos from the rest of the 
community.
•	 Many of these forums operate 
exclusively in local languages.
Threat intelligence vendors with 
expertise in collecting and analyz-
ing dark web intelligence come into 
play here. They can provide you 
with contextualized information 
from dark web forums on vulner-
abilities directly relevant to your 
network.
Figure 5-5: A post in a dark web forum shows threat actors 
exchanging information. (Source: Recorded Future)

--- Página 69 ---
Chapter 5: Threat Intelligence for Vulnerability Management | 53 
Use Case: Cross-Referencing 
Intelligence
To accurately assess real risk, you must be able to correlate 
information from multiple threat intelligence sources. Once 
you begin to understand how individual references combine 
to tell the whole story, you will be able to map the intelligence 
you have to the risk milestones a vulnerability typically goes 
through. 
For example, you might notice a new vulnerability disclosed 
on a vendor’s website. Then you discover a tweet with a link to 
proof-of-concept code on GitHub. Later you find exploit code 
is being sold on a dark web forum. Eventually you might see 
news reports of the vulnerability being exploited in the wild. 
TIP
This kind of intelligence can help you narrow your focus to 
vulnerabilities that truly present the greatest risk and move 
away from a “race to patch everything” mode of operation.
Bridging the Risk Gaps 
Between Security, Operations, 
and Business Leadership
In most organizations, the responsibility for protecting against 
vulnerabilities devolves onto two teams:
1.	 The vulnerability management team runs scans and 
prioritizes vulnerabilities by potential risk.
2.	 The IT operations team deploys patches and 
remediates the affected systems.
This dynamic creates a tendency to approach vulnerability 
management “by the numbers.” For example, the vulnerability 
management team in the security organization might deter­
mine that several vulnerabilities in Apache web servers pose a 
very high risk to the business and should be given top priority. 
However, the IT operations team may be supporting a lot 
more Windows systems than Apache servers. If team mem­
bers are measured strictly on the number of systems patched, 
they have an incentive to keep their focus on lower-priority 
Windows vulnerabilities.

--- Página 70 ---
54 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Intelligence on exploitability also prepares your organization 
to strike the correct balance between patching vulnerable 
systems and interrupting business operations. Most organiza­
tions have a strong aversion to disturbing business continuity. 
But if you know that a patch will protect the organization 
against a real, imminent risk, then a short interruption is 
completely justified. 
The risk milestones framework outlined above makes it 
much easier to communicate the danger of a vulnerability 
across your security and operations teams, up through senior 
managers, and even to the board. This level of visibility into 
the rationale behind decisions made around vulnerabilities 
will increase confidence in the security team across your entire 
organization.
TIP
To reduce the gap between the vulnerability management and 
IT operations teams, introduce risk of exploitability. Arm the 
vulnerability management team with more contextualized 
data about the risk of exploitability so they can pinpoint a 
smaller number of high-risk CVEs and make fewer demands 
on the operations team. The operations team can then give 
first priority to that small number of critical patches and still 
have time to address other goals.

--- Página 71 ---
Chapter 6
Threat Intelligence for 
Security Leaders
In this chapter
  See how threat intelligence supports risk management and 
targeted investment in cybersecurity programs
  Explore the types of threat intelligence CISOs find most valuable
  Review how threat intelligence helps mitigate the security 
skills gap
“An investment in knowledge pays the best interest.” 
― Benjamin Franklin
T
he job of the CISO has seen dramatic shifts in recent 
years. It once centered on making decisions about pur­
chasing and implementing security technologies. Now CISOs 
are far more likely to interact with the CEO and the board and 
to perform delicate balancing acts of pre-empting risk while 
ensuring business continuity. 
Today, security leaders must:
;
; 
Assess business and technical risks, including 
emerging threats and “known unknowns” that might 
impact the business
;
; 
Identify the right strategies and technologies to 
mitigate the risks
;
; 
Communicate the nature of the risks to top manage­
ment and justify investments in defensive measures
Threat intelligence can be a critical resource for all these 
activities.

--- Página 72 ---
56 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Risk Management
Perhaps the greatest responsibility of the modern CISO is risk 
management: taking the resources and budget available and 
allocating them in a way that most efficiently mitigates the 
threat of cyber incidents and attacks. Figure 6-1 outlines the 
stages security leaders move through when approaching this 
challenge. 


	

%

#!



!"!





!


	



!
#

!#

"



	


!

! 


$
Figure 6-1: A standard approach to assessing risk and develop­
ing a security strategy.
Internal data is not enough
The approach to security outlined in Figure 6-1 depends 
on having good information about relevant risk factors and 
potential weaknesses in existing security programs. The prob­
lem is that too often this kind of intelligence is only gathered 
from internal audits, known issues, and previous security 
incidents. That produces a list of problems you already know 
about, not a list of the problems you need to worry about 
today or in the future.
External context is needed to verify risk related to known 
problems and provide warning about emerging and unfore­
seen threats.
Internal network traffic data, event logs, and alerting obvi­
ously bring value to risk management, but they don’t provide 
enough context to build a comprehensive risk profile, and

--- Página 73 ---
Chapter 6: Threat Intelligence for Security Leaders | 57 
certainly not enough to define an entire strategy. Security 
professionals must be proactive about uncovering unknown 
risks. Context is what helps security leaders determine which 
potential threats are most likely to become actual threats to 
their enterprise.
Sharpening the focus
Threat intelligence includes information on general trends 
such as: 
;
; 
Which types of attacks are becoming more (or less) 
frequent
;
; 
Which types of attacks are most costly to the victims
;
; 
What new kinds of threat actors are coming forward, 
and which assets and enterprises are they targeting
;
; 
The security practices and technologies that have 
proven the most (or least) successful in stopping or 
mitigating these attacks
Data on these trends can help security organizations antici­
pate which threats will be the hot news items of tomorrow.
But contextualized external threat intelligence can go much 
further, enabling security groups to assess whether an emerg­
ing threat is likely to affect their specific enterprise based on 
factors like:
;
; 
Industry: Is the threat affecting other businesses in 
our vertical?
;
; 
Technology: Does the threat involve compromis­
ing software, hardware, or other technologies used 
in our enterprise?
;
; 
Geography: Does the threat target facilities in 
regions where we have operations?
;
; 
Attack method: Have techniques used in the 
attack, including social engineering and technical 
methods, been used successfully against our com­
pany or similar ones?

--- Página 74 ---
58 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Without these types of intelligence, gathered from an 
extremely broad set of external data sources, it is impossible 
for security decision makers to obtain a holistic view of the 
cyber risk landscape and the greatest risks to their enterprise. 
Figure 6-2 illustrates how a customized threat intelligence 
dashboard can highlight intelligence that is most relevant to a 
specific enterprise.
Figure 6-2: A threat intelligence dashboard can pinpoint threats 
most relevant to a specific industry or technology. (Source: 
Recorded Future)
Mitigation: People, 
Processes, and Tools
Vulnerability scans and techniques such as penetration testing 
and red teaming can help security organizations understand 
where gaps exist in their defenses.
But today’s enterprises have far more technical vulnerabilities, 
more weaknesses in security processes and policies, and more 
employees susceptible to social engineering techniques than 
they can possibly patch, harden, and train in the immediate 
future.

--- Página 75 ---
Chapter 6: Threat Intelligence for Security Leaders | 59 
Threat intelligence helps security leaders pinpoint the vulner­
abilities and weaknesses that need to be addressed first by 
indicating:
;
; 
Which threat actors are most likely to target the 
enterprise
;
; 
The TTPs those threat actors use, and therefore the 
weaknesses they tend to exploit
Early warnings
Sometimes threat intelligence can be even more specific. 
For example, analysts have found hackers on the dark web 
announcing their intention to attack specific industries, and 
even specific companies (sometimes to recruit like-minded 
hackers to assist them).
Analysts monitoring dark web marketplaces can also track the 
development and sale of hacker tools and exploit kits targeting 
specific vulnerabilities. As discussed earlier in this book, it is 
important to patch vulnerabilities and mitigate weaknesses 
that are at the point of being exploited before tackling others 
where exploitation is theoretical.
TIP
You can use some threat intelligence solutions to scan the 
dark web and other sources for references to your company, 
your industry, and specific technologies installed in your 
enterprise. 
Investment 
Deciding how to invest in cybersecurity has become a daunt­
ing challenge in recent times. Financial investment advisers 
Momentum Partners identified more than 1,700 companies in 
2017 that specialize in cybersecurity technologies and services. 
With so many choices, how can CISOs identify the most 
effective solutions to implement as part of a proactive security 
strategy?
The only logical way is to make investment decisions based on 
risk. Each organization has its own unique risk profile, shaped 
by its industry, locations, and internal infrastructure. Threat 
intelligence helps security leaders understand their organiza­

--- Página 76 ---
60 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
tion’s most pressing threats, making the task of identifying 
(and justifying) areas for investment much simpler. The end 
goal is to be able to judge that risk and make investments 
based upon sound knowledge of the true threat landscape.
Communication
CISOs are often challenged by the need to describe threats 
and justify countermeasures in terms that will motivate 
non-technical business leaders, such as cost, ROI, impact on 
customers, and competitive advantages.
Bombarding them with news about every single threat is not a 
good option. 
Threat intelligence can provide powerful ammunition for 
these discussions, such as:
;
; 
The impact of similar attacks on companies of the 
same size in other industries
;
; 
Trends and intelligence from the dark web indicat­
ing that the enterprise is likely to be targeted
Supporting Security Leaders
We have mentioned several times that threat intelligence 
needs to be comprehensive, relevant, and contextualized to be 
useful to members of the security organization. When it comes 
to CISOs and other security leaders, it also needs to be concise 
and timely.
For example, threat intelligence can provide security leaders 
with a real-time picture of the latest threats, trends, and 
events. A threat intelligence dashboard or some other type of 
“at-a-glance” format can help security leaders respond to a 
threat or communicate the potential impact of a new threat 
type to business leaders and board members.
Threat intelligence is not just for incident response teams and 
SOCs. Security leaders are also key consumers of threat intel­
ligence, as illustrated in Figure 2-1. Think through the kinds of 
intelligence security leaders need on a daily basis (say, a dash­
board and a list of key new intelligence findings from the pre­
vious day), at regular intervals (summaries and trends for a

--- Página 77 ---
Chapter 6: Threat Intelligence for Security Leaders | 61 
quarterly risk report), and for crises (intelligence about 
attacks that have just been detected), and make sure processes 
and threat intelligence tools are in place to address these 
needs.
The Security Skills Gap
One of the responsibilities of a CISO is to make sure the IT 
organization has the human resources to carry out its mis­
sion. Yet the cybersecurity field has a widely publicized skills 
shortage, and existing security staff frequently find themselves 
under pressure to cope with unmanageable workloads. 
Threat intelligence can provide a partial answer to that crisis 
by automating some of the most labor-intensive tasks in 
cybersecurity and freeing people’s time for other tasks. For 
example, it can reduce the massive volume of alerts generated 
by SIEMs and other security tools, rapidly collect and cor­
relate context from multiple intelligence sources, and provide 
data to prioritize risks.
A threat intelligence solution made available across the 
security function can save a huge amount of time, as SOC and 
incident response analysts, vulnerability management special­
ists, and other security personnel are given the information 
and context they need to make accurate decisions. 
Powerful threat intelligence also helps junior personnel 
quickly “upskill” and perform above their experience level, so 
the CISO doesn’t have to recruit as many senior staff.
Intelligence to Manage Better
It’s clear that the greatest challenge for CISOs and other secu­
rity leaders is how to balance limited resources against the 
need to secure their organizations against ever-evolving cyber 
threats. Threat intelligence addresses these issues by helping 
them to build a picture of the threat landscape, accurately 
calculate cyber risk, and arm security personnel with the intel­
ligence and context they need to make better, faster decisions.
Threat intelligence enables CISOs and security leaders to stay 
abreast of current and emerging threats in a way that simply 
isn’t possible through manual research. But for that to hap­

--- Página 78 ---
62 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
pen, a threat intelligence capability must be comprehensive, 
relevant, contextualized, concise, and timely. Threat intelli­
gence capabilities without these characteristics will most likely 
hinder more than help, as partial or inaccurate information 
can easily lead to poor decision making.
Case Study: Threat Intelligence and 
Automation at a Global Retailer
With nearly 3,600 stores and over 
135,000 employees worldwide, the 
chain’s security challenges run the 
gamut from loss prevention, fraud, 
and corporate security to protect-
ing customers’ PII.
The retailer applies automation to 
both centralizing and customizing 
threat intelligence for every secu-
rity function. Automation ensures 
that data going into its SIEM is 
accurate and highly contextual, 
and that the data coming out is in 
flexible, easy-to-use formats. 
The biggest return on investment 
— and the biggest advantage to 
managing its threat intelligence 
through an all-in-one platform — is 
better relationships both across the 
cybersecurity teams and with other 
departments in the organization.
Says a senior manager at the 
company’s Cyber Defense Center: 
“None of us is operating in a silo. 
If we can use threat intelligence 
to keep us safe, but also help our 
program visibility, that helps to 
make a business case for more 
capabilities. Having champions on 
other teams to back the benefits of 
threat intelligence really helps our 
return on investment.” 
Read the full case study or watch 
the webinar at https://www.
recordedfuture.com/gap-threat-
intelligence-needs/.

--- Página 79 ---
Chapter 7
Threat Intelligence 
for Risk Analysis
In this chapter
  Explore the value of risk models like the FAIR framework 
  See right and wrong ways to gather data about risk 
  Learn how threat intelligence can provide hard data about 
attack probabilities and costs
“Establish and promote information risk management 
best practices that …[achieve] the right balance between 
protecting the organization and running the business.” 
― Mission statement of the FAIR Institute
A
s we mentioned in the previous chapter, today there are 
more than 1,700 vendors in cybersecurity. Most of them 
define their mission as some version of “making your environ­
ment secure.” But how can enterprises set priorities for invest­
ing in technology and services, as well as people?
Risk modeling offers a way to objectively assess current risks, 
and to estimate clear and quantifiable outcomes from invest­
ments in cybersecurity. But many cyber risk models today 
suffer from either:
;
; 
Vague, non-quantified output, often in the form of 
“stoplight charts” that show green, yellow, and red 
threat levels
;
; 
Estimates about threat probabilities and costs that 
are hastily compiled, based on partial information, 
and riddled with unfounded assumptions

--- Página 80 ---
64 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Non-quantified output is not very actionable, while models 
based on faulty input result in “garbage in-garbage out” 
scenarios, whose output appears to be precise but is in fact 
misleading.
To avoid these problems, enterprises need a well-designed 
risk model and plenty of valid, current information, including 
threat intelligence.
TIP
Cybersecurity risk assessments should not be based only on 
criteria defined to prove compliance with regulations. With 
those criteria, assessing risk usually becomes an exercise in 
checking boxes against cybersecurity controls like firewalls 
and encryption. Counting the number of boxes checked gives 
you a very misleading picture of actual risk.
The FAIR Risk Model
The type of equation at the core of any risk model is: 
“Likelihood of occurrence x impact” 
But clearly God (or the Devil) is in the details. Fortunately, 
some smart people have developed some very good risk mod­
els and methodologies that you can use or adapt to your own 
needs. One that we like is the Factor Analysis of Information 
Risk (FAIR) model from the FAIR Institute. Figure 7-1 shows 
the framework of this model. 
The FAIR framework helps you create a quantitative risk 
assessment model that contains specific probabilities for loss 
from specific kinds of threats.
You can learn more about FAIR at the FAIR Institute website. 
This quantitative model for information security and opera­
tional risk is focused on understanding, analyzing, and quanti­
fying information risk in real financial terms.

--- Página 81 ---
Chapter 7: Threat Intelligence for Risk Analysis | 65 



%

 !
%
" 
!%




  
!%
	 %
 
!
"& 





!
'  
	
 
 %

#
$

	

 

 
  
Figure 7-1: The FAIR Framework, with elements informed by intelligence 
highlighted. (Source: The FAIR Institute)
Measurements and 
transparency are key
The FAIR framework (and others like it) enable you to create 
risk models that:
;
; 
Make defined measurements of risk
;
; 
Are transparent about assumptions, variables, and 
outcomes
;
; 
Show specific loss probabilities in financial terms
When measurements, formulas, assumptions, variables, 
and outcomes are made transparent, they can be discussed, 
defended, and changed. Because much of the FAIR model is 
defined in business and financial terms, executives, line of 
business managers, and other stakeholders can learn to speak 
the same language and to classify assets, threats, and vulner­
abilities in the same way.
TIP
Try to incorporate specific probabilities about future losses 
into your risk model whenever possible. Specific probabilities 
enable risk managers and senior executives to discuss the 
model and how it can be improved, after which they have 
more confidence in the model and the recommendations that 
come out of it.

--- Página 82 ---
66 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Which Statement Is More Useful?
“The threat from DDoS attacks to 
our business has been changed from 
high to medium (red to yellow).”
Or
“There is a 20 percent probability 
that our business will incur a loss 
of over $300,000 in the next 12 
months because a distributed 
denial-of-service (DDoS) attack 
will disrupt the availability of our 
customer-facing websites.”
“The threat of ransomware to our 
business has changed from low to 
medium (green to yellow).”
Or
“There is a 10 percent probability 
that our business will incur a loss 
of $150,000 in the next 12 months 
due to ransomware.”
Threat Intelligence and 
Threat Probabilities
As shown in the left side of Figure 7-1, a big part of creating a 
threat model involves estimating the probability of successful 
attacks (or “loss event frequency” in the language of the FAIR 
framework).
The first step is to create a list of threat categories that might 
affect the business. This list typically includes malware, phish­
ing attacks, exploit kits, zero-day attacks, web application 
exploits, DDoS attacks, ransomware, and many other threats.
The next step is much more difficult: to estimate probabilities 
that the attacks will happen, and that they will succeed (i.e., the 
odds that the enterprise contains vulnerabilities related to the 
attacks and existing controls are not sufficient to stop them).
TIP
Try to avoid the following scenario: A GRC (governance, risk, 
and compliance) team member asks a security analyst, “What 
is the likelihood of our facing this particular attack?” The 
security analyst (who really can’t win) thinks for 30 seconds 
about past experience and current security controls and 
makes a wild guess: “I dunno, maybe 20 percent.”

--- Página 83 ---
Chapter 7: Threat Intelligence for Risk Analysis | 67 
To avoid appearing clueless, your security team needs answers 
that are better informed than that one. Threat intelligence can 
help by answering questions such as:
;
; 
Which threat actors are using this attack, and do 
they target our industry?
;
; 
How often has this specific attack been observed 
recently by enterprises like ours?
;
; 
Is the trend up or down?
;
; 
Which vulnerabilities does this attack exploit (and 
are those vulnerabilities present in our enterprise)?
;
; 
What kind of damage, technical and financial, has 
this attack caused in enterprises like ours?
Analysts still need to know a great deal about the enterprise 
and its security defenses, but threat intelligence enriches 
their knowledge of attacks, the actors behind them, and their 
targets. It also provides hard data on the prevalence of the 
attacks.
Figures 7-2 and 7-3 show some of the forms the intelligence 
might take. Figure 7-2 lists the kinds of questions about a 
malware sample that a threat intelligence solution can answer 
for analysts. 
Figure 7-2: Questions about a malware sample that a threat 
intelligence solution can answer. (Source: Recorded Future)

--- Página 84 ---
68 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 7-3 shows trends in the proliferation of ransomware 
families. The trend line to the right of each ransomware family 
indicates increasing or decreasing references across a huge 
range of threat data sources such as code repositories, paste 
sites, security research blogs, criminal forums, and .onion (Tor 
accessible) forums. Additional information might be available 
about how the ransomware families connect to threat actors, 
targets, and exploit kits.
Figure 7-3: Timeline depicting the proliferation of new ransomware families. 
(Source: Recorded Future)
Threat Intelligence and 
the Cost of Attacks
The other major component of the formulas in our model is 
the probable cost of successful attacks. Most of the data for 
estimating cost is likely to come from inside the enterprise. 
However, threat intelligence can provide useful reference 
points on topics like:
;
; 
The cost of similar attacks on enterprises of the 
same size and in the same industry
;
; 
The systems that need to be remediated after an 
attack, and the type of remediation they require

--- Página 85 ---
Chapter 7: Threat Intelligence for Risk Analysis | 69 
Go Deeper on Risk
You can find out more about 
risk modeling and the role of 
threat intelligence by viewing the 
Recorded Future white paper “The 
Probability of Loss: How Threat 
Intelligence Quantifies Risk for the 
Business.”
To go even deeper, we highly 
recommend “How to Measure 
Anything in Cybersecurity Risk” by 
Douglas W. Hubbard and Richard 
Seiersen.

--- Página 87 ---
Chapter 8
Threat Intelligence for 
Fraud Prevention
In this chapter
  Understand how cybercriminals organize themselves to 
execute fraud and extortion
  See how conversations in criminal communities present 
opportunities to gather valuable threat intelligence
  Learn which types of cyber fraud you can combat by applying 
relevant threat intelligence
“The challenge for capitalism is that the things that breed 
trust also breed the environment for fraud.” 
― James Surowiecki
Stand and Deliver!
S
ince the birth of commerce, criminals have looked for 
ways to make an easy profit from those in possession 
of assets and to make the most of technology available at the 
time. In 17th century England, for example, the growth in 
coach travel among an affluent merchant class, combined with 
the invention of the portable flintlock pistol, gave rise to the 
highwayman. 
In our digital age, companies that transact business online 
find their data targeted by various forms of cyber fraud. 
To understand how criminals are looking to profit from your 
business, you cannot focus solely on detecting and responding 
to threats already actively exploiting your systems. You need 
to gather threat intelligence about the cybercriminal gangs 
targeting you and how they run their operations.

--- Página 88 ---
72 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Know Your Enemy
Verizon’s 2018 Data Breach Investigations Report attributed 
more than 60 percent of confirmed breaches to organized 
crime (Figure 8-1). 
This data aligns with intelligence gathered by Recorded 
Future from dark web communities showing that organized 
criminal groups (OCGs) are employing freelance hackers to 
defraud businesses and individuals. These groups operate just 
like legitimate businesses in many ways, with a hierarchy of 
members working as a team to create, operate, and maintain 
fraud schemes.
				
	
%!+% 
!,'
'','
'"!''
"% % #"*
'%
$(!'!
')&'
" #''"%
(&'" %
%&


	
	
	


	


	





Figure 8-1: Top external actor varieties in data breaches. 
(Source: Verizon Data Breach Investigation Report 2018)

--- Página 89 ---
Chapter 8: Threat Intelligence for Fraud Prevention | 73 
			

&


#$


"	!

!




 %& 
	
Figure 8-2: A typical organizational chart for a cybercrime syndi­
cate. (Source: Recorded Future)
A typical OCG is controlled by a single mastermind. The 
group might include bankers with extensive connections in 
the financial industry to arrange money laundering, forgers 
responsible for fake documents and supporting paperwork, 
professional project managers who oversee the technical 
aspects of operations, software engineers who write code, 
and skilled hackers. Some groups include ex-law enforcement 
agents who gather information and run counterintelligence 
operations.
The members of these cybercriminal syndicates tend to have 
strong ties in real life, and often they are respected members 
of their social groups. They certainly don’t regard themselves 
as ordinary street criminals. They rarely cross paths with 
everyday gangsters, preferring to remain in the shadows 
and avoid attention from law enforcement and local mafia 
branches. However, schemes that require large numbers of 
people, such as those that involve taking cash out of multiple 
automated teller machines simultaneously, can involve a chain 
of intermediaries who recruit and manage the “troopers” who 
do the leg work.

--- Página 90 ---
74 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Criminal Communities 
and the Dark Web
Only rarely can you attribute a cyberattack to a single individ­
ual operating in isolation. Advanced attacks typically require a 
wide range of skills and tools, and an infrastructure capable of 
launching and supporting campaigns that utilize ransomware, 
phishing, and other technical devices and social engineering 
techniques. 
Today, all those products and services can be purchased or 
rented for a price in a sophisticated underground economy. 
Cybercriminals, hackers, and their accomplices exchange 
information and carry out transactions related to illicit activi­
ties on the deep web (areas of the web that cannot be reached 
by search engines) and the dark web (areas that can only be 
accessed with special software and tools that mask the identity 
of visitors).
Gated communities
Not all cybercriminals operate exclusively in what would 
technically be referred to as the dark web. Some build commu­
nities based on a fairly standard discussion board, encrypted 
behind a login, and use technologies like Jabber and Telegram 
to conduct their business. 
Prospective members of this underground network are vetted 
by active participants in the chat rooms and forums before 
they are accepted. They may have to pay an entrance fee, 
ranging from US$50 to $2,000 or more. One forum required 
prospective members to deposit over $100,000.
A strength — and a weakness
The dark web and criminal communities strengthen cyber­
criminals and OCGs by giving them access to information, 
tools, infrastructure, and contract services that multiply their 
power and reach. However, these communities are also a 
weakness because they can be monitored to provide threat 
intelligence that can be used to anticipate and defeat fraud 
schemes.

--- Página 91 ---
Chapter 8: Threat Intelligence for Fraud Prevention | 75 
Know Your Dark Networks
You can gain a deeper under-
standing of how the criminal 
underground maintains a hierarchy 
of users in research from Recorded 
Future: “Dark Networks: Social 
Network Analysis of Dark Web 
Communities.” We found that the 
dark web is organized in three 
distinct communities: low-tier 
underground forums, higher-tier 
dark web forums, and dark web 
markets. Analysis revealed that 
a significant group of actors are 
posting in both low-tier and higher-
tier forums, showing a connection 
between these two communities. 
However, dark web markets are 
largely disconnected from these 
forums.
Connecting the Dots for 
Fraud Prevention
Threat intelligence gathered from underground criminal 
communities is a window into the motivations, methods, and 
tactics of threat actors, especially when this intelligence is 
correlated with information from the surface web, including 
technical feeds and indicators. 
The power of truly contextualized threat intelligence is shown 
by how it can draw together data from a wide variety of 
sources and make connections between disparate pieces of 
information. 
For example, the following contextual information might 
be used to turn news about a new malware variant into 
intelligence: 
;
; 
Evidence that criminal groups are using this mal­
ware in the wild
;
; 
Reports that exploit kits using the malware are 
available for sale on the dark web
;
; 
Confirmation that vulnerabilities targeted by the 
exploit kits are present in your enterprise

--- Página 92 ---
76 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
TIP
Monitor the dark web and criminal communities for direct 
mentions of your organization and assets. These mentions 
often indicate targeting or potential breaches. But also moni­
tor mentions of your industry and other less specific terms 
that might point to your operations. Using threat intelligence 
to assess risk in this way will give you more confidence about 
your defenses and help you make better decisions.
Use case: Payment fraud
The term payment fraud encompasses a wide variety of 
techniques by which cybercriminals profit from compromised 
payment data. They can use phishing to collect card details. 
More-complex attacks can compromise ecommerce sites or 
point-of-sale systems to achieve the same goal. Once they have 
acquired card data, the criminals can resell it (often as packs 
of numbers) and walk away with their cut. 
Threat intelligence can provide early warning of upcoming 
attacks related to payment fraud. Monitoring sources like 
criminal communities, paste sites, and other forums for 
relevant payment card numbers, bank identifier numbers, or 
specific references to financial institutions can give visibility 
into criminal operations that might affect your organization.  
Use case: Compromised data
Other types of compromised personal information and 
corporate intellectual property also can have enormous 
intrinsic value. Recent examples include compromised medi­
cal records, cloned and compromised gift cards, and stolen 
credentials to “pay for” services like Netflix, Uber, and items 
charged via PayPal, as illustrated in Figure 8-3.
Figure 8-3: Compromised data – Spotify credentials disclosed on the dark 
web. (Source: Recorded Future)

--- Página 93 ---
Chapter 8: Threat Intelligence for Fraud Prevention | 77 
A high percentage of hacking-related breaches leverage stolen 
or weak passwords. Cybercriminals regularly upload massive 
caches of usernames and passwords to paste sites and the 
dark web, or make them available for sale on underground 
marketplaces. These data dumps can include corporate email 
addresses and passwords, as well as login details for other 
sites. 
Monitoring external sources for this type of intelligence will 
dramatically increase your visibility, not just into leaked 
credentials, but also into potential breaches of corporate data 
and proprietary code. 
Use case: Typosquatting 
and fraudulent domains
Typosquatting involves manipulating the characters in a 
company’s domain name into nearly identical domains; for 
instance, example.com might become exanple.com. Attackers 
can register thousands of domains differing from target 
organizations’ URLs by a single character for reasons ranging 
from suspicious to fully malicious. Rogue websites using 
these modified domain names are built to look like legitimate 
websites. The rogue domains and websites can be used in 
spearphishing campaigns against company employees or cus­
tomers, watering-hole attacks, and drive-by download attacks.
Being alerted to newly registered phishing and typosquatting 
domains in real time narrows the window available for cyber­
criminals to impersonate your brand to defraud unsuspecting 
users. Once this malicious infrastructure is identified, you can 
employ a takedown service to nullify the threat. 
We’ve already seen that criminal forums and marketplaces are 
well known for facilitating all types of clandestine transac­
tions. But these channels are not the exclusive domain of 
criminal outsiders. A report from Recorded Future describes 
how corporate insiders advertise their access to criminal 
actors, as well as how employees and contractors are recruited 
into the criminal underground. Insiders are a useful cog in the 
machinery of fraud, from retail cash-out services, to carding 
operations, to theft facilitation by bank employees. Read the 
report “Insider Threats to Financial Services: Uncovering 
Evidence With External Intelligence.”

--- Página 95 ---
Chapter 9
Threat Intelligence for 
Reducing Third-Party Risk
In this chapter
  Explore the impact of increasing third-party risk  
  Understand why static assessment of third-party risk falls 
short   
  See why using real-time, automated threat intelligence is the 
best way to mitigate third-party risk
“A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.”  
― Proverb
Third-Party Risk Looms Large
B
ecause today’s supply chains are so tightly integrated, we 
have to consider the security of our partners, vendors, 
and other third parties when assessing the risk profile of our 
own organization.
According to research firm ESG, most IT professionals believe 
that cyber risk management has become more difficult over 
the last two years. Many directly attribute this challenge to the 
additional effort required to manage third-party risk. Recent 
studies from the Ponemon Institute show that 59 percent of 
organizations have had a breach that originated from a third 
party, and only 29 percent believe their partners would notify 
them of a compromise. These and related statistics are shown 
in Figure 9-1.

--- Página 96 ---
80 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Figure 9-1: Most organizations are exposed to significant risks 
through their relationships with third parties. Sources: Ponemon 
Institute and Recorded Future
The writing is on the wall: third-party attacks will get worse, 
they will further complicate cyber risk management, and your 
partners probably won’t help you address the most critical 
problems.
Many traditional assessments of third-party risk rely on static 
outputs, like financial audits, monthly reports about new 
vulnerabilities discovered in systems an organization uses, 
and occasional reports on the status of security control com­
pliance. These quickly go out of date and don’t provide all the 
information you need to make informed decisions about how 
to manage risks. 
In contrast, real-time threat intelligence enables you to accu­
rately assess risk posed by third parties and keep assessments 
current as conditions change and new threats emerge.
Traditional Risk 
Assessments Fall Short
Many of the most common third-party risk management 
practices employed today lag behind security requirements. 
Static assessments of risk, like financial audits and security 
certificate verifications, are still important, but they often lack 
context and timeliness.

--- Página 97 ---
Chapter 9: Threat Intelligence for Reducing Third-Party Risk | 81 
Organizations following traditional approaches to managing 
third-party risk often use these three steps:
1.	 They attempt to understand the organization’s busi­
ness relationship with a third party and how it exposes 
the organization to threats.
2.	 Based on that understanding, they identify frame­
works to evaluate the third party’s financial health, 
corporate controls, and IT security and hygiene, as 
well as how these relate to their organization’s own 
approach to security.
3.	 Using those frameworks, the organization assesses the 
third party, determining whether it is compliant with 
security standards like SOC 2 or FISMA. Sometimes 
the company conducts a financial audit of the supplier 
or partner.
While these steps are essential for evaluating third-party risk, 
they don’t tell the whole story. The output is static and cannot 
reflect quickly changing conditions and emerging threats. 
Often the analysis is too simplistic to produce actionable rec­
ommendations. Sometimes the final report is opaque, making 
it impossible to dig deeper into the methodology behind the 
analysis. That leaves decision-makers unsure about whether 
crucial bits of information might have been overlooked. 
TIP
When assessing third-party risk, do not rely entirely on self-
reporting questionnaires or a vendor’s inwardly focused view 
of their security defenses. Round these out with an external, 
unbiased perspective on the vendor’s threat landscape.
A Thought Experiment
Imagine that you went through 
the traditional steps of a static risk 
assessment, as outlined above. You 
concluded that one vendor in your 
supply chain is safe to work with. 
Now this supplier experiences a 
data breach that may (or may not) 
have exposed your internal data. 
Can you accurately determine 
what, if any, proactive security 
measures you need to take and 
how quickly you should act?

--- Página 98 ---
82 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Three Things to Look for 
in Threat Intelligence
To accurately evaluate third-party risk in real time, you 
need a solution that offers immediate context on the current 
threat landscape. Threat intelligence is one way to obtain that 
context and determine what shortcomings in the defenses of 
your supply chain partners represent significant risks to your 
organization. That added context includes not only current 
risks, but a historical view that can provide even more context 
to help detect, prevent, and resolve risks. 
To help you evaluate third-party risk, a threat intelligence 
solution should offer:
1.	 Automation and machine learning to quickly and 
comprehensively sort massive amounts of data
2.	 Real-time alerts on threats and changes to risks
3.	 Transparency into the threat environments of your 
third-party partners
Automation and machine learning
To manage risk for your organization, you need access to mas­
sive amounts of threat data from the open web, the dark web, 
technical and news sources, and discussion forums. The same 
applies to assessing the risks of third parties. 
But given the scale of cybersecurity-related content from these 
sources, totaling billions of facts, you need a threat intelli­
gence solution that uses automation and artificial intelligence 
to collect and analyze these details. Your threat intelligence 
solution should be able to:
;
; 
Analyze, classify, and index data points using natu­
ral language processing capabilities and multiple 
machine learning models.
;
; 
Generate an objective, data-driven risk score using a 
straightforward mathematical formula

--- Página 99 ---
Chapter 9: Threat Intelligence for Reducing Third-Party Risk | 83 
Real-time updates to risk scores
Static assessments quickly become outdated. Weekly or 
monthly intelligence reports produced by human analysts 
provide essential overviews, but often arrive too late to enable 
effective action.
Risk scoring is much more effective when it updates in real 
time and draws on a large pool of data. These capabilities 
make risk scores much more reliable for making immediate 
assessments and reaching security decisions. 
For example, a trading partner might generally be regarded 
as low risk according to standard intelligence reporting. 
However, let’s say the partner suffers a data breach that may 
(or may not) affect your organization. If you rely solely on 
static risk assessments, you likely won’t know the breach 
happened in the first place, or not until it’s too late. Or you 
may have to wait until it’s too late to acquire the intelligence 
needed to accurately evaluate the risk. What was the cause of 
the breach? Was it an exploited vulnerability in the systems 
used by the partner? A social engineering attack? Static 
assessments will not provide the evidence needed to justify 
asking that third party to put additional security controls in 
place.
Thomas H. Davenport is the President’s Distinguished 
Professor of Information Technology and Management at 
Babson College, a Fellow of the MIT Center for Digital 
Business, an independent senior advisor to Deloitte Analytics, 
and the author of 15 books. He has written a report on the use 
of threat intelligence to generate risk scores that: (a) help 
executives and boards understand the high-level risk situa­
tions of partner companies; and (b) provide guidance to cyber 
intelligence teams on prioritizing investigations of third par­
ties and their risks. The report, “Rating Companies on Third-
Party Cyber Risk,” is available at: https://go.recordedfuture.
com/cyber-risk-scores.
Transparent risk assessments
What’s the point of a risk assessment if you can’t get anyone 
to act?

--- Página 100 ---
84 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
The problem of information without context leaves us like 
Cassandra in Greek mythology. In a bid for her love, the god 
Apollo gave her the gift of prophecy, but still she scorned his 
romantic advances. In his anger, he let her keep her foresight 
but cursed her so that nobody would ever believe her warnings 
about the future.
Many risk assessments today suffer the same fate as 
Cassandra’s prophecies. When they rely on vague scoring 
methods or opaque sourcing, they can be hard to accept, even 
if they’re accurate. Too often, organizations fail to act on intel­
ligence because leaders don’t understand it or don’t know the 
source. 
To help security professionals see for themselves why some­
thing like an alert on a particular IP address might represent 
a real risk, a threat intelligence solution should show the risk 
rules that are triggered by the alert and be transparent about 
its sources. The extra detail can also eliminate the suspicion 
that information might have been overlooked. This context 
allows for faster due diligence and reference checking, includ­
ing when evaluating static assessments.
Figure 9-2: Threat intelligence provides context and helps iden­
tify shortcomings in the defenses of supply chain partners

--- Página 101 ---
Chapter 9: Threat Intelligence for Reducing Third-Party Risk | 85 
Responding to High Third-
Party Risk Scores
What do you do when faced with high risk scores for a third 
party? Not every data breach justifies terminating business 
with that partner. Just about every organization contends with 
cyberattacks and unexpected downtime, and partners are no 
exception. The more important issue is how they (and you) 
deal with incidents and take steps to reduce future risks.
A change in risk scores can present an opportunity to talk with 
your business partners about how they’re approaching secu­
rity. On your end, you can look more closely at whether the 
risk rules that were triggered will impact your organization’s 
network. For example, a public partner’s risk score might 
increase because typosquatting websites closely resembling 
legitimate websites operated by the partner were discovered. 
You can blacklist those sites in your own network to thwart 
phishing campaigns, and also investigate what steps that 
partner plans to take to protect its brand identity.
For smart security decisions, not knee-jerk reactions, you 
need up-to-the-minute context and evidence provided by 
threat intelligence.

--- Página 102 ---
86 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Case Study: Insurance Company Gains 
Real-Time View of Third-Party Risk
For years, a Fortune 100 insurance 
company struggled to maintain 
a clear and current view of the 
risk profiles of its partners. The 
solution this organization relied on 
used data that was often outdated 
and rarely refreshed. The company 
couldn’t see how a partner’s risk 
score was trending over time and 
lacked visibility into specific events 
that were impacting the score.
This organization adopted a 
threat intelligence solution from 
Recorded Future that helps its 
security team better understand, 
analyze, and rapidly address third-
party risks, including:
•	 Corporate emails, credentials, 
and company mentions found 
on the dark web
•	 Negative social media chatter
•	 Domain abuse (often indicative 
of phishing attacks)
•	 Use of vulnerable technologies
•	 IT infrastructure misuse or 
abuse 
“[Recorded Future provides] valu-
able insights into the risk postures 
of the critical suppliers we do 
business with — from real-time risk 
scores and alerts to custom rules 
we’ve set — and allows us to drill 
deeper when needed,” says the 
leader of the firm’s third-party in-
formation risk management team. 
By prioritizing threat intelligence, 
the Recorded Future solution helps 
the team quickly:
•	 Rule out low-risk alerts and 
false positives
•	 Focus on the most significant 
threats
•	 Take immediate action to 
resolve them
This solution has helped the 
company reduce time spent on 
due diligence and reference check-
ing by 50 percent, and replace a 
static, point-in-time approach with 
continuous monitoring.
You can find the full case study 
here: https://go.recordedfuture.
com/hubfs/insurance-case-study.
pdf

--- Página 103 ---
Chapter 10
Threat Intelligence 
for Digital Risk 
Protection
In this chapter
  Review the many forms of digital risk  
  Learn how threat intelligence identifies many types of digital 
risk so they can be remediated 
“Every contact leaves a trace.”  
― Locard’s exchange principle of forensic science
M
ost of the chapters in this book describe how threat 
intelligence strengthens the work of specific teams in 
a cybersecurity organization. This chapter looks at how threat 
intelligence can help detect and remediate digital risks. This 
scenario spans the org chart, but still needs to be approached 
in a systematic, methodical way.
Digital risks come in many forms, as we discuss below. But the 
common denominator is the fact that most cyberattacks leave 
traces on the web. By finding those traces, threat intelligence 
gathering processes can pinpoint and remediate the most seri­
ous digital risks.
Being Online Is Being at Risk
These days, any business or individual wishing to make an 
impact must have a strong online presence. Aspiring artists, 
shrewd politicians, huge corporations, and start-ups alike

--- Página 104 ---
88 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
strive to increase revenue, streamline business processes, and 
raise visibility through outward-facing websites, engagement 
with social media, and many other online activities.
A meaningful online presence requires you to think deeply 
about how to protect yourself from digital risk. Online engage­
ment with your audience brings unwanted attention from 
threat actors of all sorts: financially motivated cybercriminals, 
competitors trying to obtain your secrets, and hacktivists who 
want to undermine your efforts. Some of them will succeed in 
capturing proprietary information.
You also have to worry about how threat actors can hijack 
your brand and counterfeit your web presence to serve their 
own ends — for example, by creating fraudulent domains to 
use in phishing attacks or by disseminating false information 
in your name.
Before we explore how threat intelligence can help thwart 
these threat actors, let’s review some types of digital risk and 
the traces they leave on the web.
Types of Digital Risk
Digital risk falls into several categories. The most important 
are cyberattacks leading to the theft and disclosure of data, 
risks created by issues in the supply chain, risk related to 
actions by employees, and brand impersonation.
These risks are summarized in Figure 10-1.

--- Página 105 ---
Chapter 10: Threat Intelligence for Digital Risk Protection | 89 
Figure 10-1: Major categories of digital risk
Uncovering Evidence of 
Breaches on the Web
Threat intelligence solutions can pinpoint digital risks by 
monitoring the web, including private forums on the dark 
web, to uncover evidence of data breaches within your organi­
zation and partner ecosystem. Evidence can include:
;
; 
Your customers’ names and data
;
; 
Financial account data and Social Security numbers
;
; 
Leaked or stolen credentials from your employees
;
; 
Paste and bin sites containing your proprietary 
software code
;
; 
Forums mentioning your company and announcing 
intentions to attack it
;
; 
Forums selling tools and discussing techniques to 
attack enterprises like yours

--- Página 106 ---
90 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Timely discovery of these indicators can help you:
;
; 
Secure the sources of the data
;
; 
Find and fix vulnerabilities and misconfigurations in 
your infrastructure
;
; 
Mitigate future risks by improving security controls
;
; 
Identify ways to improve employee training and 
coding practices
;
; 
Enable your SOC and incident response teams to 
recognize attacks faster
TIP
Often you can narrow down the source of a leak by looking at 
exactly what information and artifacts are found on the web, 
where they are found, and what else is found in the same 
place. For example, if you find product designs or software 
code on a dark web site and recognize that they were shared 
with only a few suppliers, you would know to investigate the 
security controls of those suppliers as part of your third-party 
risk management program. If your company’s name was men­
tioned on a hacker’s forum whose members are known to 
attack certain applications, you could increase protection of 
the targeted applications by patching the systems they run on, 
monitoring them more closely, and adding security controls.
Uncovering Evidence of Brand 
Impersonation and Abuse
Brand protection is a slightly different game than data protec­
tion. The primary goal is not to strengthen your infrastructure 
and security controls, but rather to “take down” (remove from 
the web) the impersonations as quickly as possible.
Threat data gathered from the web can reveal:
;
; 
Typosquatting domains
;
; 
Domain registrations that include your company or 
product name or variations
;
; 
Hashtags that include your company or product 
name or variations of them

--- Página 107 ---
Chapter 10: Threat Intelligence for Digital Risk Protection | 91 
;
; 
Social media accounts purporting to belong to you 
or one of your employees
;
; 
Unauthorized mobile apps using your branding
;
; 
Forums mentioning plans to impersonate your 
brand
Case Study: Defeating Typosquatting 
at a Large HR Solutions Provider
A large human resources, health, 
and wealth benefits solutions 
provider helps other organizations 
manage their human resources. 
This company handles a lot of 
personally identifiable information 
(PII), including sensitive health and 
financial data. To protect that data, 
they have an extensive security op-
erations center, featuring 24/7/365 
monitoring, incident response, 
investigation and forensics, and 
more. 
Their vice president of security 
operations says that at one time it 
took a team of around 100 people 
to manage these functions. With 
Recorded Future, it takes 10. 
“Obtaining a list of all the men-
tions of our company across the 
Internet by the end of the day was 
totally infeasible, even if I had 10 
or 20 people working on it,” the 
VP says. “Sure, we could spend a 
lot of money to get people burner 
accounts and access to these 
private spaces, but what a waste! 
Anything beyond two people 
makes no sense compared to just 
using Recorded Future. The cost is 
less than two headcount, versus 
the 10 or 20 I would need to try to 
do something similar.”
For example, one morning an 
alert went off about a potential 
typosquatting domain. This alert 
was triggered by a monitoring rule 
the team had set up in Recorded 
Future to check for fraudulent do-
mains that resemble ones owned 
by the organization. Registering 
these domains is often the first 
step in a phishing attack.
As soon as the team got the alert, 
they investigated and found phish-
ing attempts targeting both their 
organization and some of their 
clients. They immediately sent 
out a flash report to their whole 
organization and all their clients 
and partners. The report provided 
actionable recommendations on 
how to counter the attack: block 
the domain at your proxy and use 
these event logs to scan for the 
threat with your SIEM. Many of 
their partners reported hits from 
the site, but they were able to 
block access before any damage 
was done. 
Thanks to real-time threat intel-
ligence, the company was able to 
mitigate the threat in hours, rather 
than in weeks (or never).

--- Página 108 ---
92 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Critical Qualities for Threat 
Intelligence Solutions
Of course, mitigating digital risk is not simply a matter of 
finding some isolated piece of stolen data or one typosquatting 
domain. Somebody, or something, has to do the broader work 
of collecting masses of data, sifting through thousands of data 
points, analyzing relationships among the data points, decid­
ing priorities, and ultimately taking action.
The best approach is to use a threat intelligence solution that 
can:
;
;  Collect and scan data from the widest range 
of sources: Automation at the data-collection stage 
saves analysts precious time. The best solutions 
gather data not only from open web sources, but also 
from the dark web and technical sources.
;
;  Map, monitor, and score digital risk: Through 
automation, advanced data science, and analytic tech­
niques like machine learning and natural language 
processing, threat intelligence solutions should help 
analysts link business attributes with related digital 
assets; detect, score, and prioritize digital risk events; 
and coordinate risk remediation activities.
;
;  Coordinate remediation: Robust threat intel­
ligence solutions generate alerts and reports that 
provide information on how to remediate problems. 
They also integrate with tools that can perform reme­
diation immediately, and offer a service to take down 
typosquatting sites, misleading social media accounts, 
and other forms of brand impersonation.

--- Página 109 ---
Section 3: Your Threat 
Intelligence Program

--- Página 111 ---
Chapter 11
Analytical Frameworks 
for Threat Intelligence
In this chapter
  Learn about the advantages of using threat intelligence 
frameworks 
  Understand the strengths and weaknesses of the three best-
known frameworks
  See how the three frameworks can complement each other
“Structure is required for creativity.” 
― Twyla Tharp
T
hreat intelligence frameworks provide structures for 
thinking about attacks and adversaries. They promote a 
broad understanding of how attackers think, the methods they 
use, and where in an attack lifecycle specific events occur. This 
knowledge allows defenders to take decisive action faster and 
stop attackers sooner. 
Frameworks also help focus attention on details that require 
further investigation to ensure that threats have been fully 
removed, and that measures are put in place to prevent future 
intrusions of the same kind. 
Finally, frameworks are useful for sharing information within 
and across organizations. They provide a common grammar 
and syntax for explaining the details of attacks and how those 
details relate to each other. A shared framework makes it 
easier to ingest threat intelligence from sources such as threat 
intelligence vendors, open source forums, and information 
sharing and analysis centers (ISACs).

--- Página 112 ---
96 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
TIP
The frameworks outlined below are not competitive, but 
rather complementary. You can utilize one, two, or all three of 
them. 
The Lockheed Martin 
Cyber Kill Chain®
The Cyber Kill Chain®, first developed by Lockheed Martin in 
2011, is the best known of the cyber threat intelligence frame­
works. The Cyber Kill Chain is based on the military concept 
of the kill chain, which breaks the structure of an attack into 
stages. By breaking an attack up in this manner, defenders 
can pinpoint which stage it is in and deploy appropriate 
countermeasures. 
The Cyber Kill Chain describes seven stages of an attack:
1.	 Reconnaissance 
2.	 Weaponization
3.	 Delivery
4.	 Exploitation
5.	 Installation
6.	 Command and Control 
7.	 Actions and Objectives (sometimes referred to as 
exfiltration)
These stages are often laid out in a diagram similar to Figure 
11-1.










		

Figure 11-1: Diagram of the Lockheed Martin Cyber Kill Chain. 
Security teams can develop standard responses for each stage.

--- Página 113 ---
Chapter 11: Analytical Frameworks for Threat Intelligence | 97 
For example, if you manage to stop an attack at the exploita­
tion stage, you can have high confidence that nothing has been 
installed on the targeted systems and full incident response 
activity may not be needed. 
The Cyber Kill Chain also allows organizations to build a 
defense-in-depth model that targets specific parts of the kill 
chain. For example, you might acquire third-party threat 
intelligence specifically to monitor:
;
; 
References to your enterprise on the web that would 
indicate reconnaissance activities
;
; 
Information about weaponization against newly 
reported vulnerabilities in applications on your 
network
Limitations of the Cyber Kill Chain
The Cyber Kill Chain is a good way to start thinking about how 
to defend against attacks, but it has some limitations. One 
of the big criticisms of this model is that it doesn’t take into 
account the way many modern attacks work. For example, 
many phishing attacks skip the exploitation phase entirely, 
and instead rely on the victim to open a Microsoft Office 
document with an embedded macro or to double-click on an 
attached script. 
But even with these limitations, the Cyber Kill Chain creates 
a good baseline to discuss attacks and where they can be 
stopped. It also makes it easier to share information about 
attacks within and outside of the organization using standard, 
well-defined attack points. 
You can find out more about the Cyber Kill Chain by reading 
the seminal white paper and visiting the Cyber Kill Chain 
website. 
The Diamond Model
The Diamond Model was created in 2013 by researchers at 
the now-defunct Center for Cyber Intelligence Analysis and 
Threat Research (CCIATR). It is used to track attack groups 
over time rather than the progress of individual attacks.

--- Página 114 ---
98 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
In its simplest form, the Diamond Model looks similar to 
Figure 11-2. It is used to classify the different elements of an 
attack. The diamond for an attacker or attack group is not 
static, but rather evolves as the attacker changes infrastruc­
ture and targets and modifies TTPs.

	


	
Figure 11-2: A simple Diamond Model design.
The Diamond Model helps defenders track an attacker, the 
victims, the attacker’s capabilities, and the infrastructure the 
attacker uses. Each of the points on the diamond is a pivot 
point that defenders can use during an investigation to con­
nect one aspect of an attack with the others. 
Pivoting
Let’s say you uncover command 
and control traffic to a suspicious 
IP address. The Diamond Model 
would help you “pivot” from this 
initial indicator to find information 
about the attacker associated with 
that IP address, then research 
the known capabilities of that at-
tacker. Knowing those capabilities 
will enable you to respond more 
quickly and effectively to the 
incident. Or imagine that your 
threat intelligence solution uses 
the Diamond Model. If the board 
of directors asks who is launching 
similar attacks against other orga-
nizations in your industry (attribu-
tion), you may be able to quickly 
find a list of victims, the probable 
attacker, and a description of that 
attacker’s TTPs. These will help you 
decide what defenses need to be 
put in place.

--- Página 115 ---
Chapter 11: Analytical Frameworks for Threat Intelligence | 99 
Flexibility
One of the big advantages of the Diamond Model is its flexibil­
ity and extensibility. You can add different aspects of an attack 
under the appropriate point on the diamond to create complex 
profiles of different attack groups. Other features of an attack 
that can be tracked include:
1.	 Phase
2.	 Result
3.	 Direction
4.	 Methodology
5.	 Resources
Challenges with the Diamond Model
The downside is that Diamond Models require a lot of care 
and feeding. Some aspects of the model, especially infrastruc­
ture, change rapidly. If you don’t update the diamond of an 
attacker constantly, you run the risk of working with outdated 
information. 
TIP
Time stamp every update of a diamond so everybody has vis­
ibility into the age of the information.
TIP
If you don’t have the time and resources to manage this type 
of model yourself, you may be able to get updated information 
from a third-party threat intelligence provider.
Even with these challenges, though, the Diamond Model can 
make the jobs of many security people easier by helping get 
everyone fast answers about threats. 
To learn more about the Diamond Model, read the Recorded 
Future blog post “Applying Threat Intelligence to the 
Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis”, or download the origi­
nal white paper “The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis.”

--- Página 116 ---
100 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
The MITRE ATT&CK™ Framework
MITRE is a unique organization in the United States: a 
corporation responsible for managing federal funding for 
research projects across multiple federal agencies. It has had 
a huge impact on the security industry, including the develop­
ment and maintenance of the Common Vulnerabilities and 
Exposures (CVE) and the Common Weakness Enumeration 
(CWE) databases. 
MITRE has developed a number of other frameworks that are 
very important for threat intelligence, including:
;
; 
The Trusted Automated Exchange of Intelligence 
Information (TAXII™), a transport protocol that 
enables organizations to share threat intelligence 
over HTTPS and use common application program­
ming interface (API) commands to extract that 
threat intelligence
;
; 
Structured Threat Information eXpression (STIX™), 
a standardized format for presenting threat intel­
ligence information
;
; 
The Cyber Observable eXpression (CybOX™) 
framework, a method for tracking observables from 
cybersecurity incidents
Categories of attacker behavior
The MITRE Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common 
Knowledge (ATT&CK™) framework was created as a means 
of tracking adversarial behavior over time. ATT&CK builds on 
the Cyber Kill Chain, but rather than describe a single attack, 
it focuses on the indicators and tactics associated with specific 
adversaries. 
ATT&CK uses 11 different tactic categories to describe adver­
sary behavior:
1.	 Initial Access
2.	 Execution
3.	 Persistence
4.	 Privilege Escalation

--- Página 117 ---
Chapter 11: Analytical Frameworks for Threat Intelligence | 101 
5.	 Defense Evasion	
6.	 Credential Access
7.	 Discovery
8.	 Lateral Movement
9.	 Collection
10.	Exfiltration
11.	Command and Control
Each of these tactical categories includes individual tech­
niques that can be used to describe the adversary’s behavior. 
For example, under the Initial Access category, behaviors 
include Spearphishing Attachment, Spearphishing Link, 
Trusted Relationship, and Valid Accounts. 
You can see the MITRE Enterprise ATT&CK Framework at 
https://attack.mitre.org/wiki/Main_Page.
This classification of behaviors allows security teams to be 
very granular in describing and tracking adversarial behavior 
and makes it easy to share information between teams. 
ATT&CK™ is useful across a wide range of security func­
tions, from threat intelligence analysts to SOC operators and 
incident response teams. Tracking adversary behavior in a 
structured and repeatable way allows teams to:
;
; 
Prioritize incident response
;
; 
Tie indicators to attackers
;
; 
Identify holes in an organization’s security posture
TIP
Threat intelligence frameworks help codify the way your secu­
rity teams look at threats, indicators, vulnerabilities, and 
actors. If you are not prepared to build out your own frame­
work for analysis, consider partnering with security compa­
nies that have solutions built around these frameworks. That 
approach enables you to enjoy the benefits of the framework 
quickly and makes your security activities much more 
effective.

--- Página 119 ---
Chapter 12
Your Threat 
Intelligence Journey
In this chapter
  Review ways to clarify your threat intelligence needs and goals 
  Examine key success factors that contribute to effective 
programs 
  Learn how to start simple and scale up
“Whatever you do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness 
has genius and power and magic in it.” 
― Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
I
n this chapter of our book, we suggest some do’s and don’ts 
for starting on your threat intelligence journey and steering 
toward a comprehensive program.
Don’t Start With Threat Feeds
In the first chapter we discussed several common misconcep­
tions about threat intelligence, including that it is mostly 
about threat data feeds. In fact, many organizations begin 
their threat intelligence programs by signing up for threat 
data feeds and connecting them with a SIEM solution. 
This may seem like a good way to start because many threat 
data feeds are open source (i.e., free), and the technical indica­
tors they deliver appear useful and easy to interpret. Since all 
malware is bad, and every suspicious URL could be used by 
an attacker, the more clues you have about them the better, 
right?

--- Página 120 ---
104 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Well, in reality, the vast majority of malware samples and 
suspicious URLs are not related to current threats to your 
enterprise. That’s why feeding large volumes of unfiltered 
threat data to your SIEM will almost certainly create the kind 
of alert fatigue we examined in Chapter 4. 
To learn more about the range of threat intelligence sources, 
take a look at the Recorded Future blog post “Beyond Feeds: A 
Deep Dive Into Threat Intelligence Sources.”
Clarify Your Threat Intelligence 
Needs and Goals
Because threat intelligence provides value to so many teams in 
cybersecurity, it is important to develop priorities that reflect 
the overall needs and goals of the enterprise.
Answer these questions 
Rather than assuming that any one team, data source, or 
threat intelligence technology should have priority, you should 
develop a clear set of goals by determining the needs of each 
security group in your organization and the advantages that 
threat intelligence can bring to them. 
Begin by considering these questions:
;
; 
What are your greatest risks?
;
; 
What are the ways that threat intelligence can help 
address each of those risks?
;
; 
What is the potential impact of addressing each 
risk?
;
; 
What gaps need to be filled by information, technol­
ogy, or human resources to make threat intelligence 
effective in those areas?
Answering these questions will help you clarify where threat 
intelligence can deliver the biggest gains in the shortest time. 
It will also guide your investigation of which threat intel­
ligence sources, tools, and vendors can best support you and 
what staff you need to strengthen your program.

--- Página 121 ---
Chapter 12: Your Threat Intelligence Journey | 105 
The Recorded Future white paper “Best Practices for Applying 
Threat Intelligence” elaborates on why it is better to start out 
not by investigating technologies or vendors, but by looking 
first at the types of threat intelligence that are available and 
how they can make different areas of cybersecurity more 
effective.
Identify teams that can benefit 
most from threat intelligence
Teams across your security organization can benefit from 
intelligence that drives informed decision making and offers 
unique perspectives. Intelligence that is comprehensive, rel­
evant, and easy to consume has the potential to revolutionize 
how different roles in your organization operate day to day. 
Figure 12-1 shows examples of how teams inside organizations 
can use threat intelligence.


		

! %

 
%
! %
 
! %
	 
( 


 
$   
' "% &
!!
#  
 
  ! 
 # 
$   
  
$ " %# 
$  $ 
' "% &
 
$   
Figure 12-1: How security teams use threat intelligence.
When determining how to move your threat intelligence strat­
egy forward, it’s important to identify all the potential users 
in your organization and align the intelligence to their unique 
use cases.

--- Página 122 ---
106 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Drill down into the types of threat intelligence each group can 
use and exactly how they will benefit in terms of faster 
responses, lower costs, better use of staff, better investment 
decisions, etc. Often the needs and benefits are not obvious. 
Documenting these details will help you set priorities, justify 
investments, and find surprising new uses for threat 
intelligence.
Learn how threat intelligence can compensate for the talent 
gap that many companies face by reading the Recorded Future 
blog post “Threat Analyst Insights: Threat Intelligence as a 
Leveler.”
Key Success Factors
We have observed several factors that frequently contribute to 
effective threat intelligence programs.
Generating quick wins 
with monitoring
Monitoring threat information can provide quick benefits 
with relatively modest investments. The key is to look for a 
few types of data that are particularly meaningful for your 
business and information security strategy and will help you 
anticipate emerging threats or provide early warning of actual 
attacks. Your activities might include things like:
;
; 
Checking for new vulnerabilities that affect your 
most important software packages, servers, and 
endpoints
;
; 
Tracking threat trends that pose potential risks to 
your business operations
;
; 
Watching for any leaked corporate credentials, data, 
or code appearing on public or dark web sites
There are probably a few data types that are vitally important 
to your business and that you can monitor without investing 
in new infrastructure or staff. Monitoring them can generate 
quick wins, demonstrate the advantages of threat intelligence, 
and build enthusiasm for the program.

--- Página 123 ---
Chapter 12: Your Threat Intelligence Journey | 107 
Automating as much as possible
Effective threat intelligence programs typically focus on 
automation from the beginning. They start by automating 
fundamental tasks like data aggregation, comparison, label­
ing, and contextualization. When these tasks are performed by 
machines, humans are freed up to work on making effective, 
informed decisions. 
As your threat intelligence program becomes more sophisti­
cated, you may find even more opportunities for automation. 
You will be able to automate information sharing among 
a larger group of security solutions and automate more 
workflows that provide intelligence to incident analysis and 
response and fraud prevention teams. You will be able to 
offload more of the “thinking” to your threat intelligence 
solutions, for example, by having the software automatically 
correlate threat data and produce risk scores.
When you evaluate threat intelligence solutions, examine the 
level to which they employ automation. Is automation con­
fined to aggregating and cross-referencing data, or does the 
solution add context that equips your teams to make risk-
based decisions with confidence? Keep in mind that in threat 
intelligence, more raw data only adds value if it’s properly 
analyzed, structured, and delivered to you in an easy-to-con­
sume format.
Integrating threat intelligence with 
processes and infrastructure
Integrating threat intelligence tools with existing systems is 
an effective way to make the intelligence accessible and usable 
without overwhelming teams with new technologies. 
Part of integration is giving threat intelligence tools visibility 
into the security events and activities captured by your other 
security and network tools. Combining and correlating inter­
nal and external data points can produce genuine intelligence 
that is both relevant to your business and placed in the context 
of the wider threat landscape. 
The other critical aspect of integration is delivering the most 
important, specific, relevant, and contextualized intelligence 
to the right group at the right time.

--- Página 124 ---
108 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Threat intelligence solutions can be integrated with SIEMs 
and other security tools either through APIs or interfaces 
developed in partnership with the security tool vendors. 
TIP
When you evaluate threat intelligence solutions, it’s important 
to understand which ones can integrate with your existing 
software and support your security teams’ use cases. 
Getting expert help to 
nurture internal experts
The value you get from threat intelligence is directly related to 
your ability to make it relevant to your organization and apply 
it to existing and new security processes. 
You can reach these goals faster if you work with a vendor or 
consultant that provides both technical capabilities and exper­
tise to empower your organization to get the most from threat 
intelligence. As time goes on, working with such a partner will 
enable members of your team to become threat intelligence 
experts in their own right, so that your capabilities in the field 
can grow organically.
Look for partners with a wide and deep bench of threat intel­
ligence experts. These specialists should be equipped to 
understand your needs and ready to help you get the most 
from your investment. You should be able to call on their 
expertise as needed and to work with them to identify new 
advantages from leveraging threat intelligence in your organi­
zation. Your chosen partners should not only help you succeed 
today, but also support your security teams as you move 
forward.
You can get more information on selecting the right threat 
intelligence solution by downloading “The Buyer’s Guide to 
Cyber Threat Intelligence,” from Recorded Future. It includes 
a handy RFP template to use in evaluating the capabilities of 
different vendors.

--- Página 125 ---
Chapter 12: Your Threat Intelligence Journey | 109 
Start Simple and Scale Up
We hope this book has shown you that threat intelligence 
is not some kind of monolith that needs to be dropped onto 
the security organization all at one time. Instead, you have 
options to draw on a wide range of data sources and then 
process, analyze, and disseminate threat intelligence to every 
major group in cybersecurity. 
That means you can start simple with your current staff 
(instead of a dedicated threat intelligence group), a few data 
sources, and integration with existing security tools like SIEM 
and vulnerability management systems. You can then scale 
up to dedicated staffing, more data sources, more tools, more 
integration, and more automated workflows, as shown in 
Figure 12-2.
#'%'
"'  "
%&#(%&
#$ 
	'
#(%&
(%',
# ('#"&
#%/#*
#&% ,"
#"## 




#%'0"' 
&#(%&
#&
 ,"#"## 


#''%'
"'  "" ,&'&&#!
&'%('%&#(%&-*%
!",'&.
%&%"" 
%"' !#"'#%"
0
( "% ',
"!"'
'"'# %'&#
#%'0"' 
&#(%&
#&
 ,"#"## 


( '$ &(%','!&0
(&"'%'
"'  "
#"'+'( '%'"'  "
$&0"#%
$%$#%'&
0""'&$#"&
0"'%'*''## &
#%'0"' 
&#(%&
#&
 ,"#"## 


	''%'" ,&''!
#!""!( '$ 
"'  "$%#)%&'#
$%#("'  "
%'0"'  " '#%!
	$" ,&&
0"'%'*'!( '$ 
&(%','## &




Figure 12-2: Four stages of maturity for threat intelligence programs, from 
no internal resources, to limited sources and tools, to a fully staffed, highly 
automated threat intelligence program.
Start the journey by researching the needs of each group in 
your cybersecurity organization and seeing how threat intel­
ligence can help them achieve their objectives.

--- Página 126 ---
110 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Then, over time, you can build toward a comprehensive threat 
intelligence program that:
;
; 
Scours the widest possible range of technical, open, 
and dark web sources
;
; 
Uses automation to deliver easily consumable 
intelligence
;
; 
Provides fully contextualized alerts in real time with 
limited false positives
;
; 
Integrates with and enhances existing security tech­
nologies and processes
;
; 
Consistently improves the efficiency and efficacy of 
your entire security organization

--- Página 127 ---
Chapter 13
Developing the Core 
Threat Intelligence Team
In this chapter
  Understand the processes, people, and technology that make 
up a dedicated threat intelligence capability 
  Learn how these teams use threat intelligence not just to judge 
risk, but also to drive business continuity
  Review ways to engage with threat intelligence communities
“Talent wins games, but teamwork and intelligence win 
championships.” 
― Michael Jordan
W
e have seen how threat intelligence benefits most of 
the teams in the information security organization. 
We now make a few suggestions about how to organize your 
core threat intelligence team itself.
Dedicated, but Not 
Necessarily Separate
As we discussed in the previous chapter, you can start your 
threat intelligence journey with people who continue to play 
other roles on different teams in the organization. 
Two questions will arise:
1.	 Should there be a dedicated threat intelligence team?
2.	 Should it be independent, or can it live inside another 
cybersecurity group?
The answers are: yes, and it depends.

--- Página 128 ---
112 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
A dedicated team is best
As you develop a comprehensive threat intelligence program, 
you should build a team dedicated to collecting and analyzing 
threat data and turning it into intelligence. The sole focus of 
this team should be to provide relevant and actionable intel­
ligence to key stakeholders, including senior executives and 
members of the board. 
Dedication and a broad perspective are needed to ensure 
team members dedicate enough time to collecting, processing, 
analyzing, and disseminating intelligence that provides the 
greatest value to the enterprise as a whole, rather than yield­
ing to the temptation to focus on the intelligence needs of one 
group or another.
Its location depends on 
your organization
Organizational independence, as shown in Figure 13-1, has its 
advantages, such as greater autonomy and prestige. 





	

	




	

















Figure 13-1: Threat intelligence as an independent group in the 
cybersecurity organizational structure.

--- Página 129 ---
Chapter 13: Developing the Core Threat Intelligence Team | 113 
However, these advantages can be completely offset by the 
jealousies and political issues caused by creating a team with a 
new high-level manager and its own budget that pulls budding 
threat intelligence analysts out of their existing groups.
A dedicated threat intelligence team does not necessarily need 
to be a separate function reporting directly to a VP or the 
CISO. It can belong to a group that already works with threat 
intelligence. In many cases this will be the incident response 
group. This savvy approach can avoid conflict with entrenched 
security teams.
Picking the People
If you take a gradual approach 
to building your core threat 
intelligence team, start with 
individuals who are already in the 
cybersecurity organization and are 
applying threat intelligence to their 
particular areas of security. They 
may not have the title “threat intel-
ligence analyst” or see themselves 
that way at first, but they can form 
the backbone of your emerging 
threat intelligence capability. 
Core Competencies
We have emphasized that the threat intelligence function 
exists to strengthen other teams in the cybersecurity organiza-
tion so they can better protect a specific enterprise. It is there-
fore critical that the threat intelligence team include people 
who understand the core business, operational workflows, 
network infrastructure, risk profiles, and supply chain as well 
as the technical infrastructure and software applications of the 
entire enterprise.
As the threat intelligence team matures, you’ll want to add 
members with skills for:
;
; 
Correlating external data with internal telemetry
;
; 
Providing threat situational awareness and recom-
mendations for security controls

--- Página 130 ---
114 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
;
; 
Proactively hunting internal threats, including 
insider threats
;
; 
Educating employees and customers on cyber
threats
;
; 
Engaging with the wider threat intelligence 
community
;
; 
Identifying and managing information sources 
Collecting and Enriching 
Threat Data
We talked a little about sources of threat data in Chapter 2. 
Here we explore how a threat intelligence team can work with 
a range of sources to ensure accuracy and relevance.
The human edge
Threat intelligence vendors can provide some types of strate­
gic intelligence, but you can also develop in-house capabilities 
to gather information about the topics and events most 
relevant to your enterprise. 
For example, you could develop an internal web crawler that 
analyzes the web page code of the top 5,000 web destina­
tions visited by your employees. This analysis might provide 
insights into the potential for drive-by download attacks. You 
could share the insights with the security architecture team to 
help them propose controls that defend against those attacks. 
This kind of threat intelligence generates concrete data, which 
is much more useful than anecdotes, conjecture, and generic 
statistics about attacks.

--- Página 131 ---
Chapter 13: Developing the Core Threat Intelligence Team | 115 
Additional sources
Proprietary sources that can strengthen your threat intel­
ligence resources include:
;
; 
Vendor or ISAC feeds
;
; 
Whitelists
;
; 
Blacklists
;
; 
Threat intelligence team research
Combining sources
An automated threat intelligence solution enables the threat 
intelligence team to centralize, combine, and enrich data from 
multiple sources before the data is ingested by other security 
systems or viewed by human analysts on security operations 
teams. 
Figure 13-2 shows the elements of such an automated threat 
solution. In this process, information from a threat intel­
ligence vendor is filtered to find data that is important to 
the enterprise and specific cybersecurity teams. Then it is 
enriched by data from internal threat intelligence sources and 
output in formats appropriate for targets such as SIEMs and 
incident response systems. This automated translation of data 
into relevant insights is the very essence of threat intelligence. 

	
	
	

	



	

	
	

	
Figure 13-2: A threat intelligence platform can centralize, combine, and enrich 
data, then format it for multiple target systems. (Source: Recorded Future)

--- Página 132 ---
116 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
The role of intelligent machines
Advances in machine learning and natural language process­
ing (NLP) can bring additional advantages to the threat intel­
ligence team. With the right technology, references to threats 
from all sources can be rendered language-neutral, so it can be 
analyzed by humans and machines regardless of the original 
language used. We’ve reached the point where AI components 
have successfully learned the language of threats and can 
accurately identify “malicious” terms.
The combination of machine learning, NLP, and AI offers 
huge opportunities for organizations to leverage threat intel­
ligence. Not only can these technologies remove language 
barriers, but they also can reduce analyst workloads by taking 
on many tasks related to data collection and correlation. 
When combined with the power to consider multiple data and 
information sources concurrently to produce genuine threat 
intelligence, these capabilities make it far easier to build a 
comprehensible map of the threat landscape.
See how Recorded Future applies advanced AI in the white 
paper “4 Ways Machine Learning Is Powering Smarter Threat 
Intelligence.”
You can find out how financial services giant Fannie Mae 
streamlined the communication of finished intelligence by 
reading “How to Build a Cyber Threat Intelligence Team (and 
Why Technology Isn’t Enough)” on the Recorded Future blog.
Engaging With Threat 
Intelligence Communities
Threat intelligence cannot flourish in a vacuum. External 
relationships are the lifeblood of successful threat intelligence 
teams. No matter how advanced your team might be, no single 
group can be as smart individually as the threat intelligence 
world as a whole. 
Many threat intelligence communities allow individual 
enterprises to share relevant and timely attack data so they 
can protect themselves before they are victimized. Engaging 
with trusted communities such as ISACs is crucial for 
decreasing risk, not just for your individual enterprises, but

--- Página 133 ---
Chapter 13: Developing the Core Threat Intelligence Team | 117 
also for the entire industry and the cybersecurity world at 
large. Participation requires time and resources, for example 
to communicate with peers via email and to attend security 
conferences, but relationship building must be a priority for 
threat intelligence to be successful.

--- Página 135 ---
Conclusion: Moving 
Toward a Security 
Intelligence Program
“Know your enemy and know yourself and you can fight 
a hundred battles without disaster.” 
― Sun Tzu
Key Takeaways From the Book
W
e began this guide by introducing the premise that 
intelligence helps everyone in cybersecurity, enabling 
teams to anticipate threats, respond to attacks faster, and 
make better decisions on how to reduce risk. In the 13 chap-
ters contained in this book, we examined how intelligence can 
be applied to numerous facets of an organization’s security 
strategy, enabling a shift toward a more proactive, compre-
hensive security approach.
This is security intelligence — an approach that amplifies the 
effectiveness of security teams and tools by exposing unknown 
threats, informing better decisions, and driving a common 
understanding to ultimately accelerate risk reduction across 
the organization. With the three pillars of threat intelligence, 
digital risk protection, and third-party risk reduction, all 
organizations can get real insight into the risks they face, and 
streamline how their teams work to make better use of valu-
able human resources. 
As explained in the foreword to this book, a security intel-
ligence approach is rooted in three principles:
1. Threat intelligence must provide the context to 
make informed decisions and take action.
Threat intelligence needs to be timely, clear, and action-

--- Página 136 ---
120 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
able. It has to come at the right time, in a form that is 
understandable. It should enrich your knowledge, not 
complicate the decision-making process. It should help put 
everybody in your organization on the same page.
2. People and machines work better together.
Machines can process and categorize raw data orders 
exponentially faster than humans. On the other hand, 
humans can perform intuitive, big-picture analysis much 
better than any artificial intelligence — as long as they’re 
not overwhelmed with sorting through huge data sets and 
doing tedious research. When people and machines are 
paired, each works smarter, saving time and money, reduc­
ing human burnout, and improving security overall.
3. Threat intelligence is for everyone.
No matter what security role you serve, threat intelligence 
makes a difference. It’s not a separate domain of security 
— it’s context that helps you work smarter, whether you’re 
staffing a SOC, managing vulnerabilities, or making high-
level security decisions. But to make things easier, not 
harder, threat intelligence should integrate with the solu­
tions and workflows on which you already rely, and should 
be easy to implement.
Whether you are just kicking off your security intelligence 
initiative or you are many years into your strategy, efficiently 
reducing risk is the ultimate goal.

--- Página 137 ---
Risk Analysis
Third-Party Security 
Competence
Assess third party’s information security competence
Third Parties With Elevated 
Risk
Identify third parties that have elevated risk to my 
organization
Competitive Research
Research competitive market
Security Leadership
Third Parties With Elevated 
Risk
Identify third parties that have elevated risk to my 
organization
Attack Planning
Identify attack planning that could target my 
organization
Vulnerability Management
Exploit Kits
Identify information about exploit kits
High-Risk Vulnerabilites
Identify critical and high-risk vulnerabilities in tech 
stack
Undisclosed Vulnerabilities
Identify undisclosed zero-day and embargoed 
vulnerabilities
Incident Response
Data Exposure Incidents
Report data exposure incidents to affected parties 
and stakeholders for remediation
Appendix
Threat Intelligence Goals: A Quick Reference Guide
Threat intelligence is not “one size fits all.” The security 
applications of threat intelligence in your business depend on 
the nature of your organization and your existing information 
security strategies and capabilities.
This library of threat intelligence goals aligns with the security 
teams we have highlighted in this book. You can use these goals 
to help identify and prioritize threat intelligence activities.
Security Operations
Data Exposure Incidents
Report data exposure incidents to affected 
stakeholders for remediation
High-Risk Malware Families
Research evolution and trends of malware families 
with high risk to my organization
Reputation Risk
Identify risks to my organization’s reputation

--- Página 138 ---
122 | The Threat Intelligence Handbook
Industry Attack Trends
Identify campaigns targeting related industries
Infrastructure Risk
Increased risk score for my infrastructure
Phishing and Spam 
Campaign Trends
Identify trending campaigns that use spearphishing 
or phishing with malicious email attachments or 
links
Reputation Risk
Identify risks to my organization’s reputation
Targeted Campaign 
Research
Identify IOCs associated with a specific operation or 
campaign to help track and mitigate cyberattacks
Targeted Threat Actor 
Research
Identify IOCs associated with threat actors to help 
track and mitigate cyberattacks
Fraud Prevention
Stolen Asset Discovery
Discover stolen assets (e.g., gift cards, credit cards) 
posted online
Threat Intelligence Analysis
Third Parties With Elevated 
Risk
Identify third parties that have elevated risk to my 
organization
Data Exposure Incidents
Report data exposure incidents to affected parties 
and stakeholders for remediation
Exploit Kits
Identify information about exploit kits
High-Risk Malware Families
Research evolution and trends of malware families 
with high risk to me
High-Risk Vulnerabilities
Identify critical and high-risk vulnerabilities in tech 
stack
Identify Attack Planning
Identify attack planning that could target my 
organization
Industry Attack Trends
Identify campaigns targeting related industries
Infrastructure Risk
Increased risk score for my infrastructure
Phishing and Spam 
Campaign Trends
Identify trending campaigns that use spearphishing 
or phishing with malicious email attachments or 
links
Reputation Risk
Identify risks to my organization’s reputation
Targeted Campaign 
Research
Identify IOCs associated with a specific operation or 
campaign to help track and mitigate cyberattacks
Targeted Threat Actor 
Research
Identify IOCs associated with threat actors to help 
track and mitigate cyberattacks
Undisclosed Vulnerabilities
Identify undisclosed zero-day and embargoed 
vulnerabilities

