=== Threat Hunting Survival Guide.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
THREAT HUNTING 
SURVIVAL GUIDE
M I C R O S O F T  S E C U R I T Y  E X P E R T S

--- Página 2 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Table of Contents
Why prepare? 
The benefits of 
proactive threat hunting
Modern attacks
Why threat hunting must 
extend beyond the endpoint
Know the terrain
Commodity malware vs 
human-operated attacks
Identify the signs 
of an attack
Catch human-operated 
attacks in your 
environment
Prepare for common 
threat scenarios 
How to apply the ABCs 
of threat hunting
Build a 
shelter
How to develop your own 
threat hunting program
Bolster your hunt with tools
How Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting can help
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

--- Página 3 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Why Prepare
The benefits of proactive 
threat hunting
Like wilderness survival experts, threat hunters succeed because of 
impressive skills, an eagerness to learn and adapt, and vigilance to 
potential threats. Adversaries are getting more adept at sneaking 
into networks and lurking there without detection for weeks or 
even months as they gather information and escalate privileges. 
Human-operated attacks can seem as daunting as crossing an ice 
bridge over a 100-foot crevasse on a snow-covered mountain. 
However, successful threat hunters thrive rather than merely 
survive due to proactive preparation. 
Proactive threat hunting is built around an 
“assume breach” mindset rather than a 
traditional approach of waiting for endpoint 
detection tools to identify potential threats. 
While the latter approach works for automated 
and well-known attacks, today’s human-
operated attacks are more complex. Proactive 
threat hunting helps to uncover hidden security 
threats that hide in your environment and 
discover vulnerabilities. Like wilderness survival 
expert training for rugged environments, 
modern threat hunters are harnessing their 
knowledge and resources to outthink attackers. 
Benefits of proactive threat hunting

--- Página 4 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Identity attacks by the numbers
Source: Understanding identity theft protection and Cyber Signals: Identity is the New Background, Microsoft   
million identity-
based attacks in a 
month in 2021
83
billion attacker-
driven sign-ins in 
one month alone
4.9
of CISOs (Chief Information 
Security Officer) report an 
increase in phishing 
campaigns and identity fraud
45%
The ongoing security labor shortage has caused a national security risk. Until more roles are filled, 
today’s cybersecurity professionals will be tasked with what may seem like an overwhelming 
responsibility. We created this threat hunting guide to help support these defenders. In this guide, 
we’ll dive into how to identify if a human-operated attack has occurred and share strategies for 
proactive threat hunting and human-operated attack investigation. Guided by these survival 
strategies, you’ll be able to assess potential threats you face and rapidly identify signs of a human-
operated attack. 
Proactive threat hunting 
helps familiarize your team 
learn your environment 
better, making it easier to 
detect outliers. This enables 
you to identify 
opportunities for 
standardization, thus 
making it easier to detect 
suspicious activity in the 
future.
Threat hunters benefit 
significantly from having a 
“home field advantage”. 
This advantage is multiplied 
when supplemented by 
perspective from hunters 
specializing in the threat 
landscape. Your knowledge 
of your enterprise paired 
with our knowledge of the 
threat landscape will help 
identify suspicious activity 
more rapidly.
Modern cybersecurity is 
intrinsically complex and 
requires a data from a 
variety of sources, and 
everything looks like an 
anomaly without 
consistency. Standardizing 
your enterprise will make 
suspicious activity more 
apparent and increases the 
likelihood that you will 
detect suspicious activity 
earlier in an attack.
Be Proactive
Gain Perspective
Standardize
HELPFUL RESOURCE: Understanding Identity Threat Protection Infographic

--- Página 5 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Modern Attacks
Why threat hunting must extend 
beyond endpoints
Surviving in the wild takes an understanding of dangers like weather, 
terrain, and predators, including knowing their activity patterns, 
methods of attack, and weaknesses. Threat hunters also are 
constantly mindful of threats and realize that an attack can happen 
anywhere, at any time, so they must understand those threats – and 
be agile enough to adapt whenever necessary.
Humans form the backbone of threat hunting. Perhaps not 
surprisingly, the most formidable threats are also often operated by 
humans. Understanding these attackers means developing a deep 
knowledge of the tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) they use 
to access an organization’s environment. 
Extending your security visibility 
Endpoint security matters and will continue 
to matter in perpetuity. In fact, the rise of 
human-operated attacks makes it even more 
important to bolster endpoint security. 
Malware continues to cause harm to the 
reputations and bottom lines of businesses 
of all sizes. Moving beyond endpoints-only is 
an evolution that can hugely benefit 
businesses. One strategy is for threat hunters 
to use extended detection and response
(XDR).
HELPFUL RESOURCE: Modernizing security operations with XDR

--- Página 6 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Top XDR use cases
Extended detection and response, often abbreviated as XDR, is a fully integrated set of security 
tools that offers holistic, optimized security by integrating security products and data into 
simplified solutions. XDR combines prevention, detection, investigation, and response, providing 
visibility, analytics, correlated incident alerts, and automated responses to improve data 
security and combat threats.
A modern organization’s cybersecurity assets span a variety of first-party and third-party networks, 
applications, cloud databases, mobile devices, and identities. The digital perimeter as it exists now 
is a dynamic and ever-evolving landscape.
What is XDR?
What is Zero Trust?
Besides XDR, one of the best ways to move beyond endpoints is to follow the principles of Zero 
Trust. The main tenets of a Zero Trust philosophy are to authenticate and authorize access every 
time, limit user access to just what they need for what they’re working on and assume breach by 
implementing end-to-end encryption verification and analytics in threat detection efforts.
A Zero Trust approach should extend throughout the entire digital estate and serve as an 
integrated security philosophy and end-to-end strategy. This is done by implementing Zero Trust 
controls and technologies across six foundational elements – Identity, Endpoints, Data, Apps, 
Infrastructure, and Network. Each of these is a source of signal, a control plane for enforcement, 
and a critical resource to be defended.
Detect endpoint 
device vulnerabilities
Hunt threats 
across domains
Investigate cross-
workload security events
Ensure security 
posture across your 
digital estate
Prevent future 
attacks
Prioritize and 
correlate alerts

--- Página 7 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Know the terrain
Commodity vs. human-
operated malware
Successful wilderness survivalists aren’t content to hide out in their 
shelter. Instead, they strap on their packs, lace up their hiking boots, 
and explore the terrain. Besides giving them potentially life-saving 
intelligence about predators in the area, they also learn the 
waterways, vegetation, and other unique characteristics of the land to 
help them thrive. 
Threat hunters must trek the digital landscape and learn where 
attacks could occur. The two major types of attacks that hunters stay 
alert for are commodity malware and human-operated attacks.
Commodity malware attacks
Commodity malware attacks are the hazards 
you encounter every day as users click on the 
wrong link or install the wrong program. In 
these situations, much of the attack logic is 
contained within the malware, so remediation 
is typically as simple as removing the 
malware, rebuilding the device, and / or 
potentially resetting the user’s credentials.

--- Página 8 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Human-operated attacks invest significantly 
more effort into the compromise of a specific 
target than commodity malware attacks. Once 
attackers gain a foothold within a system, they 
use their attack experience and motives to 
decide what to do at each stage based on what 
they find in their target’s network. Because 
humans are behind these attacks, their impact 
– and the variety of techniques used – vary 
significantly. 
Threat hunters must research to determine 
which systems and identities need to be 
remediated. Addressing such threats can feel
like a chess game as attackers respond to each 
remediation attempt that does not completely 
evict them from the enterprise. Evicting a 
human-operated attack means eliminating any 
identities or devices they control and will 
require the vigilance of trained security staff 
paired with effective security products, and 
modern enterprise configuration.
These human-operated attacks are a big 
reason why companies upgrade to XDR from 
their existing Endpoint Detection and Response 
(EDR) solutions. XDR gives you that broad 
security view across the landscape. 
Leverage highly 
automated 
attack 
techniques
Be focused on 
infecting large 
numbers of 
endpoints
Be delivered using
techniques that would
appeal to many
potential targets
Commodity malware attacks are likely to target a broad audience and focus on infecting as many 
systems as possible. To achieve this, commodity malware is likely to:
Human-operated attacks might:
Focus on 
specific targets
Evade specific 
organizational 
protections
Use customized tools 
designed specifically 
for the target
Abuse legitimate 
administrative tools 
to avoid detection
Human-operated attacks

--- Página 9 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Understanding the human-operated attack pathway
Human adversaries can use a variety of 
techniques to achieve the same impact. 
These attack vectors may include malware, 
abuse of legitimate administration tools or 
capabilities, social engineering, software 
exploitation, or a variety of other techniques. 
The important thing to remember is that 
many of the steps involved in a human 
operated attack may appear like normal 
administration activity. 
XDR enables an analyst to go beyond 
antimalware and other technologies that 
solely react to malicious activity, thus 
enabling a unified view of how identities, 
endpoints, e-mail, and cloud apps, and other 
sources to help piece together individual 
suspicious elements that might otherwise go 
unnoticed.
HELPFUL RESOURCE: Disrupting human-operated attacks

--- Página 10 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Identify the signs 
of a human-
operated attack
Catching human-operated attacks 
in your environment
In the wilderness, it’s obvious your safety is at risk if you hear the 
rumbling of an avalanche from higher elevation or see the 
glowing eyes of a four-legged predator in the shadows. However, 
there were warning signs in the hours or days before the attack –
like pawprints near a watering hole or cracks in the snow. In the 
same way, effective threat hunters roam their environments for 
signs of potential threats before they can do serious – and even 
lasting – damage to the organization. 
While most commodity malware can be simply removed, a human-operated attack typically requires 
coordinated remediation. Since these attacks are operated by humans, people can respond to 
incomplete attempts to remove their presence from an enterprise. These responses may include 
changing malware or communication channels, going dormant to avoid detection, or immediately 
impacting the organization.
Introducing the ABCs of threat hunting
Survival during a human-operated attack relies on your ability to identify signs of the attacker 
and their activity. These signs are useful in determining the scope of the breach and the list of 
assets that need to be remediated. Warning signs include both what you can see and what you 
don’t. For instance, if deer sip water from a stream every morning but stay away one morning, 
it could alert you to a nearby predator in the wild. In cybersecurity, anomalies can include 
something that is suddenly missing or different in your environment from what you usually see.
Just as there are commonly accepted priorities – shelter, fire, water, and food – in wilderness 
survival, threat hunters can be guided by the ABCs of threat hunting. 
Authentication
Backdoors
Communication

--- Página 11 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
What identities did 
the attacker use to 
gain initial access?
What identities did 
the attacker use 
after initial access?
What identities were 
compromised or 
potentially exposed 
to the attacker?
Were any illegitimate 
accounts created by 
the attacker?
Questions to ask when researching the authentication aspect of an attack include:
Authentication
Authentication represents the identity aspect of an incident. Identities used by an attacker are 
valuable for finding other suspicious activity and tracking any accounts that need to be disabled, 
deleted, or reset. Understanding the authentication aspect of an attack enables you to quickly 
identify suspicious activity and respond before the adversary has a chance to strike.
Shared credentials 
(i.e., SSH keys)
Passwords
Cookies
SAS 
(Shared Access 
Signature) tokens
Cloud 
identities
E-mail 
addresses
User 
accounts
Examples of authentication elements
*Go hunt feature applies to the following products:
•
Microsoft 365 Defender
•
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
With the go hunt action, you can quickly investigate events and various entity types using powerful 
query-based advanced hunting capabilities. This action automatically runs an advanced hunting 
query to find relevant information about the selected event or entity.
Go hunt*

--- Página 12 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
How did the 
attacker gain 
control over the 
device or service?
Is there a 
vulnerability that 
the attacker abused 
to control the 
device or service?
Did the attacker gain 
control due to an 
overly exposed 
administrative 
capability?
What backdoors did 
the attacker install to 
provide durable 
access?
Questions to ask when researching the backdoor aspect of an attack include:
Backdoors
Backdoors are intended or malicious ways that an attacker controls a system or service. These can 
be malware, unintentionally overexposed administrative capabilities, or vulnerable or 
misconfigured services that an attacker can manipulate to control a system. Researching the 
backdoor aspect of an attack can provide evidence of attacker techniques that may highlight other 
potentially compromised applications and systems.
Accidental or intentional 
misconfigurations to provide 
remote access
Web shells
Built-in management 
capabilities
Remote 
administration tools
Malware that provides 
remote access
Examples of backdoor elements
Go hunt feature applies to the following products:
•
Microsoft 365 Defender
•
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
With the go hunt action, you can quickly investigate events and various entity types using powerful 
query-based advanced hunting capabilities. This action automatically runs an advanced hunting 
query to find relevant information about the selected event or entity.
Go hunt*

--- Página 13 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
How did the attacker 
communicate with the 
system compromised 
during initial access?
What legitimate or 
illegitimate apps did the 
attacker communicate 
with during the attack?
Questions to ask when researching communication include:
Are there any novel attributes 
of this communication that 
could be used to track 
malicious activity elsewhere 
in my enterprise?
Communication
The communication aspect of the attack identifies how the attacker interacted with the backdoor. 
Elements of this communication can be used to help identify other systems the attacker may have 
interacted with, much in the way that following a wolf’s tracks tells you where it went.
Proxies
Network routes
User agent strings
DNS (Domain Name 
System) names
IP (Internet Protocol) 
addresses
Network relays
Examples of communication elements
Go hunt feature applies to the following products:
•
Microsoft 365 Defender
•
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
With the go hunt action, you can quickly investigate events and various entity types using powerful 
query-based advanced hunting capabilities. This action automatically runs an advanced hunting 
query to find relevant information about the selected event or entity.
Go hunt*

--- Página 14 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Credential 
theft and 
reuse
Evidence of 
human error
Response to
recovery attempts
Evidence of 
motive
Organizational
reconnaissance
Malware that is
intended to be
interactively
controlled*
Is your organization ready?
Microsoft’s security operations assessment tool 
helps you check how prepared your security 
operations center team is to detect, respond to, 
and recover from attacks. Find out your 
organization’s security maturity level and learn 
how to improve processes and tooling to boost 
preparedness.
Signs of a human-operated attack
Try the assessment tool
*(e.g., Cobalt Strike, which is sometimes deployed alongside other types of malware)

--- Página 15 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Prepare for 
common threat 
scenarios
How to apply the ABCs 
of threat hunting
Both the wilderness and the cyber landscape are full of 
surprises. Unfortunately, some of those surprises can hurt 
you – whether it be a sudden snowstorm that buries your 
camp or an unforeseen attack that barrels through your 
organization’s defenses and steals sensitive data. Responding 
to threats quickly and effectively is easier if you’ve planned 
for the unexpected. 
Preparing for unexpected threats involves searching for and understanding the 
signs of pending danger. In the wilderness, that might mean seeing menacing 
clouds in the distance and recognizing that they could dump inches of rain on you 
if they move closer. In the cybersecurity world, that involves proactively studying 
common threat scenarios and planning your response BEFORE they become a 
reality and immobilize your organization. 
Let’s explore how to investigate a few of the most common 
threat scenarios using the ABCs of threat hunting.

--- Página 16 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Cloud data theft can 
sneak up on you and 
catch you off guard, 
much like the appearance of a 
crevasse in the snow. Plummet 
into a crevasse and you’ll be left 
staring up at the sky and 
wondering if there were signs you 
could have spotted sooner and 
how in the world you can get out. 
Most cloud data theft attacks are the result of a cloud identity 
compromise, improperly secured information, or an 
overexposed credential. Cloud data theft attacks can be 
difficult to detect as they commonly involve detecting 
anomalous activity being performed using authenticated 
identities. Luckily, we can use the ABCs of threat hunting to 
identify and intercept this activity.
!
Cloud identity compromise
leading to cloud data theft

--- Página 17 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Cloud identity compromise investigation
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS: 
•
Look for suspicious cloud application usage spikes 
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS: 
Determine if the data is properly secured.
•
Review access control lists associated with the data to ensure only intended identities can 
access it.
•
Ensure that anonymous access is not granted to the data.
Determine if any cloud apps have been granted permissions to the data in 
Defender for Cloud Apps
•
Review any apps with high data usage.
•
Review highly privileged apps that may have overprivileged access.
Determine if the data was stolen using a compromised credential.
•
Review the risky users report in Azure Active Directory. If you see evidence of anomalous 
logons or leaked credentials, the credential is compromised.
•
If the identity performing the suspicious activity is used by an application, review the 
application for evidence of compromise or abuse.
•
If there is evidence that a credential was compromised, consider resetting the password 
and/or disabling the account.
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Suspicious provisioning of permissions to allow remote access
•
Providing unusual permissions for one identity over another’s (MailboxRead, for example)
•
Unusual change in MFA delivery for users (sample device for multiple accounts)
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
If a cloud identity was compromised, search for any backdoors created by the attacker 
anywhere the compromised identity has elevated permissions.
•
In Azure Active Directory, search the audit logs for illegitimate accounts, role changes, app 
approvals, or permission delegation.
•
Look for configuration changes that might reduce the security posture of the enterprise, such 
as file sharing, mail forwarding rules, or ACL (Access Control List) modifications made by the 
compromised identity.
•
Review any apps that may have been granted tenant-wide permissions by the identity.
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Anomalous volumes of cloud identity activity for previously “quiet” identities
•
Suspicious authentication patterns (originating from traffic from anonymization services)
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
Identify network communication involved with the cloud data theft attack.
•
Identify attributes of suspicious logins by cloud accounts associated with the data theft using 
Defender for Identity or Azure Active Directory audit logs.
Search for authentication attempts with similar attributes using Defender for Identity or Azure 
Active Directory.
•
Look for other activities performed using the same IP (Internet Protocol) address.
•
If the ISP or geolocation of the IP address is not normal for its activity, look for other activity 
performed from this location, or ISP.
Search for authentication attempts with similar attributes (such as the same IP address, 
location, or ISP) as the anomalous logon to identify other potentially compromised accounts. 
•
Use Azure Active Directory activity logs in Azure Monitor and the IdentityLogonEvents table in 
the advanced hunting schema for support.
•
Consider creating custom detection rules in Microsoft 365 Defender to alert you when activity 
matching the attacker’s profile occurs.
C O M M U N I C A T I O N
B A C K D O O R S
A U T H E N T I C A T I O N

--- Página 18 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Encountering a snake, 
alligator, or mountain 
lion is one of the 
scariest possible experiences in 
the wild. Predators are strong 
and fierce and usually have 
intimidatingly sharp teeth and 
claws. Some are ferocious but 
keep their distance unless you get 
too close to their young or 
territory while others are more 
aggressive. 
In a similar way, malware and other device compromise 
scenarios can be a beastly problem, in large part due to the 
many paths the attacker can take after compromising a device. 
This attack can occur when a user is tricked into installing 
malware or if an attacker gains the ability to log onto a device 
due to a vulnerability or overexposure. 
If you determine that the compromise is the result of a human-
operated attack, be sure to size up the situation before acting. 
Predators in the wild typically leave tracks that alert you to their 
presence. Human attackers leave signs too, including artifacts 
that are critical to scoping your situation to ensure that you 
don’t find yourself in the middle of an ambush.
!
Device
compromise

--- Página 19 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Search for anomalous login to device for the user
•
Observe any burst of network login activity performed by a typically “quiet” user
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
Identify the identity used by the attacker to connect to the device.
•
Check for evidence of a logon using a potentially compromised credential.
•
Determine if the attacker tricked a user into using their identity to infect the system on their 
behalf.
•
Check if the identity was identified in any known password breaches.
•
Identify whether the attack used an account with administrative, root, or system privileges. If 
so, review other identities that were logged onto the device for evidence of compromise
Check whether the identity used in the attack has administrative or root privileges elsewhere 
in the enterprise.
•
Review any group memberships that may provide elevated privileges within the enterprise or 
to cloud services. If any are identified, review the activities performed by the identity on these 
systems.
•
If the identity has administrative permissions to your authentication system, review any 
potential attacks that may have been performed against those systems.
Determine if other credentials were exposed to the attacker.
•
Check for evidence that the attacker accessed a password file.
•
Determine if the attacker compromised any PKI (public key infrastructure) credentials, such as 
an exported private key.
•
Review activity performed by any cloud identities associated with the identity.
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Search for rare or suspicious persistence mechanisms, such as run key entries, cron jobs, 
startup folder items, or scheduled tasks.
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
Identify the backdoor used by the attacker to control the compromised device.
•
Determine if any malware detections were raised for the device.
•
Check for evidence of illegitimate use of remote administration capabilities like remote 
desktop protocol (RDP) or Secure Shell (SSH).
Identify if the attacker used remote administration software that is not part of your normal 
configuration
•
Review software installed on the device using the software tab on the device page.
•
Use Advanced Hunting to review any processes that may provide remote control capability.
•
Check if the device hosts a service that may contain a network-accessible remote code 
execution (RCE) vulnerability.
•
If the device runs in-house developed code, review any activity that may indicate an unknown 
vulnerability.
HELPFUL RESOURCE: Response actions for a device
Device compromise investigation
B A C K D O O R S
A U T H E N T I C A T I O N

--- Página 20 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Search for suspicious beaconing activity from benign EXEs
•
Determine if there has been anomalous peer-to-peer communication activity by device
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
•
Determine how the attacker communicated with the system.
•
Check if the attacker connected to the system over a network.
•
Determine if the attacker used a phishing e-mail to trick the user into compromising the 
device.
•
Identify any identifying characteristics of the communication that could be used to detect 
other communication from the attacker.
Determine if the malware or attacker communicated with any other systems, domains, or 
cloud apps.
•
Check if there were any suspicious outbound network connections made by the backdoor or 
identity.
•
Look for evidence that the device or identity attempted to communicate to internal systems.
•
Determine if there are any new listening network connections created as part of the 
compromise.
Device compromise investigation continued
C O M M U N I C A T I O N

--- Página 21 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Panicking after 
stepping into 
quicksand can make a 
bad situation much worse –
even causing you to sink 
further. Wading through 
multiple security alerts can be 
frustrating and scary. 
Email is a top target of attackers looking to steal sensitive 
information, send fraudulent invoices, or use your email 
address to trick your business partners into trusting an 
otherwise immediately suspicious message. 
One day, you may have a sinking feeling you’re not the only 
one using your mailbox. Before you know it, you are waist-
deep in quicksand wondering how in the world you can get 
out. Luckily, if you remain calm and make the right moves 
you can avoid sinking further, prevent data loss, and soon 
find yourself back on solid ground – thanks to the ABCs of 
threat hunting.
!
Office 365 
mailbox compromise

--- Página 22 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS: 
•
Check for any anomalous login sources
•
Review “Low and slow” password sprays (learn more about hunting for low and slow 
password sprays )links vs. "here" links.
Investigation actions: 
•
Determine the identity used to log onto the mailbox
•
Check if the identity used was the mailbox owner, a delegate, or an administrator.
•
Determine if the identity logged onto more than one mailbox.
Research suspicious activity associated with the identity.
•
Check for multiple failed logons to the identity prior to the successful logon.
•
Look for suspicious elements to the account logon activity, such as an abnormal location, 
time of day, or frequency.
•
Determine whether other services were accessed by the identity.
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Check anomalous inbox rules created by user
•
Determine anomalous delegation relationships between users
Investigation actions:
Research whether any mailbox configurations were made during the compromise.
•
Check if any mailbox forwarding addresses were created.
•
Determine if there were any malicious inbox rules created.
•
Check for any suspicious mailbox delegations created by the account. 
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Check for anomalous bursts of outbound emails to previously unseen domains (phishing 
relay)
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
Research the communication path used by the attacker. 
•
Check if the IP (Internet Protocol) address of the attacker was seen anywhere else in the 
enterprise.
•
Look for any unique attributes to the communication that could be used for research or 
detection, such as ISP, location, or user agent string. 
HELPFUL RESOURCE: Response actions for a compromised email account
Office 365 mailbox compromise investigation 
C O M M U N I C A T I O N
B A C K D O O R S
A U T H E N T I C A T I O N

--- Página 23 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Human-operated 
ransomware attacks 
can feel as 
overwhelming as a powerful 
avalanche barreling down a 
mountain and picking up speed 
as it goes. You detect a rumble, 
the ground shakes, and your 
phone rings off the hook. 
Instead of watching the chaos, 
act fast before the landslide is 
directly upon you.
Human-operated ransomware attacks are a coordinated 
effort that can be significantly damaging to organizations. 
In these attacks, attackers will use reconnaissance techniques 
to quickly get a lay of the land and find a way to encrypt as 
much data as possible in a short amount of time before 
demanding a ransom.
This scenario is one of the biggest reasons to master the 
ABCs of threat hunting. In a human-operated ransomware 
attack, it is important to identify how the ransomware is 
being distributed and intercept it without causing undue 
harm. Once distribution has been stopped, use the ABCs of 
threat hunting to identify how the attacker controlled the 
source and work to rapidly eliminate their control.
!
Human-operated 
ransomware attacks

--- Página 24 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS: 
•
Identify unusual login events associated with highly privileged accounts – such as members of 
the Domain Admins groups or powerful service accounts
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS: 
Determine the identity being used to distribute the ransomware.
•
Review identities associated with file copies and process identities used by the ransomware.
When the identity used to distribute the ransomware is identified, prevent it from performing 
further damage by disabling the identity and changing its password. 
Review historical activity involving the identity to discover other potential attacker activity.
•
Review any suspicious logons that led up to the ransomware distribution.
•
Look for any credential attacks associated with the identity or a device where it was exposed.
•
Research any recent alerts involving the identity.
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS: 
•
Monitor environment for anomalous, large-scale creation of low-prevalence executables 
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS: 
Determine the mechanism used to launch the ransomware.
•
Review recent group policy changes that may include a task to launch ransomware from a 
central location.
•
Look for a sudden increase in the use of remote execution tools, such as psexec or winexesvc.
•
Look for process creation attempts using remote administration capabilities such as WMI 
(Windows Management Instrumentation) or WS-Man.
•
Check system event logs for the presence of malicious data introduced via removable storage 
device (USB)
•
Review system event logs for the installation of software claiming to be updates, as in the 
incident SocGholish. 
When the distribution source is identified, identify the attacker’s means of controlling that 
endpoint.
•
Look for suspicious processes that might provide remote control to the attacker.
•
Identify any operating system remote administration capabilities that might have been used 
to control the system, such as RDP, SSH, WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation), or 
WS-Man.
If you find a backdoor, search for its use elsewhere in your enterprise.
•
If the backdoor is not a common tool for your enterprise, use Advanced Hunting to identify 
similar processes based on file hash, metadata, local TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) port, 
launch location, or other unique attributes.
•
If the backdoor is a common tool for your enterprise, research the source of the network 
connection used to control the device.
HELPFUL RESOURCE: Response actions for detecting ransomware
Human-operated attacks investigation 
B A C K D O O R S
A U T H E N T I C A T I O N

--- Página 25 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
PROACTIVE THREAT HUNTING ACTIONS:
•
Surface sudden bursts of communication activity to low-frequency domains or IP addresses by 
multiple, distinct devices
INVESTIGATION ACTIONS:
Look for network connections that may be associated with ransomware.
•
Identify the network source used to distribute the ransomware using Advanced Hunting and, if 
possible, block it.
•
Review network connections made by the ransomware in Advanced Hunting to identify any 
communication channel you may be able to sever and monitor.
Research the communication path used by the attacker to control the distribution point.
•
Consider blocking and monitoring the communication path, using Indicators if possible.
•
Check whether the IP address of the attacker was seen anywhere else in the enterprise.
•
Determine if there are any unique attributes to the communication that can be used for 
research or detection, such as ISP, location, or user agent string.
Human-operated attacks investigation continued
C O M M U N I C A T I O N

--- Página 26 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Build a shelter
How to develop your own
threat hunting program
Surviving in the wild is much easier – many would say necessary –
with a sturdy shelter. And it’s easier to build such a shelter when 
you’re joined by other people contributing their expertise to its 
construction. 
Given the enormous challenge of detecting and mitigating threats, 
you may decide to build your own threat hunting team. This 
requires bringing together the right people and giving them 
enough time and the right technology and training to succeed in 
their hunting activities. This section walks through the steps 
involved in developing a threat hunting program.
Microsoft has assembled multiple security operations 
center (SOC) teams to protect our technical 
environments and we’ve come to recognize the 
tremendous value of SOC culture when building a team.
Team-building strategies
Use your human
talent wisely
Choose team 
players
Adopt a “shift left”
mindset
Automate repetitive tasks 
whenever possible so the 
time of your talent can be 
better spent on tasks 
requiring expertise, 
judgement, and creative 
thinking. People are the most 
valuable asset of any SOC.
Cybercriminals continuously 
finetune their approaches. So 
should SOC teams by shifting 
their activities “left” in the 
attack timeline. Our goal is to 
achieve “faster than the 
speed of attack” approaches 
to detect and address attacks 
sooner.
People with a “lone wolf” 
mindset are not the best 
choice for a high-pressure 
working environment that 
requires collaboration. 
Teamwork makes the SOC 
more productive, fun, and 
insightful as everyone shares 
their knowledge.

--- Página 27 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Steps of creating a threat hunting program 
When evaluating an organization's hunting capacity, take three steps:
Undoubtedly, your organization’s skill level is the most significant component since strong data 
analyst skills enable threat hunters to transform data into detections. Consider how effective 
prospective team members are at utilizing data and tools to uncover security incidents.
The people on your threat hunting team should be knowledgeable about the internals of the 
operating systems found in your endpoints. They also should be comfortable with basic 
networking concepts, including the type of network flows per application/service that can be 
expected. After you know what expertise is needed, figure out who has these expert skills and 
bring them onto the threat hunting team. 
Unless you have an unlimited budget to build your threat hunting team, you need to carve out 
time from the work schedules of existing staff for threat hunting. The number of hours a week 
you spend on threat hunting will vary depending on the size of your organization, your security 
posture, and your risk tolerance. Depending on the size of the organization, and wherever you get 
them from, you’ll likely need to reallocate roles and responsibilities, so you don’t leave other 
teams shorthanded.
Start by dedicating two to four hours a week to proactive hunting. When you see results from 
your hunts, adjust as needed. The important thing is getting results from your hunts and tweaking 
existing tools to maximize return on investment (ROI). It’s all about allocating time and 
committing yourself to results.
The quality and quantity of data gathered helps 
define the maturity of an organization’s threat 
hunting. The more data supplied to a threat 
hunter from throughout the organization (and 
the more diverse types of data you provide), the 
easier it is to uncover useful results. However, 
that’s challenging without automation.
Automation enables people to spend more of 
their time working on the complex problems 
that are a given in threat hunting. Automation 
increases response speed, though it must be 
regularly adapted as attackers change their 
approach. 
Evaluate your skillset
1
Consider your data’s 
quality and quantity
2
Threat hunting doesn’t just involve people or 
machines. Without the right tools in place, your 
threat hunters are going into the wilderness with 
nothing. Without threat hunting tools, there’s no 
hunt. The right tools offer:
•
Visibility into authentication activity
•
Visibility into endpoint activity
•
Visibility into network activity
•
Threat intelligence
•
Customizable data correlation and analytics
Determine tools to 
benefit your hunting efforts
3

--- Página 28 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Bolster your hunt 
with tools
How Microsoft Defender Experts for 
Hunting can help
Even the most seasoned wilderness survivalists supplement their 
vast knowledge with tools and guidance. They rely on experience to 
find the choicest tinder and kindling in the woods, for instance, but 
use their trusty flint and steel or bow saw to spark it into a fire so 
they can stay warm and boil water. 
The usefulness of tools applies to threat hunting, whether you build 
your own team or turn to a managed service to gain 24x7 threat 
hunting expertise. People’s knowledge is the key to successful threat 
detection in any situation and people are the cybersecurity heroes. 
However, tools can increase the effectiveness of threat hunting by 
extending your capabilities. One tool available to add to your threat 
hunting toolkit is Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting.
experts will investigate anything they find, 
then hand off contextual alert information, 
along with remediation instructions so you 
can quickly respond.
Guided by the 24 trillion threat signals 
Microsoft observes every day, our hunters 
investigate suspicious activity, like the case of 
vendor compromise that led to a large 
phishing campaign in one Microsoft 
customer’s environment. Defender for Expert 
Hunting also includes one-click access within 
the Microsoft 365 Defender portal to Experts 
on Demand if you have questions about a 
specific incident, nation-state actor, or 
attack vector.
Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting assists your hunt
Threat hunting is incredibly time-consuming 
so using a managed service can give you 24x7 
coverage with a lower cost than building a 
team in-house.
Consider Microsoft Defender Experts your trail 
guides in all your threat hunting adventures. 
Defender Experts for Hunting was created for 
customers that have a robust security 
operations center but want to proactively hunt 
threats using Microsoft Defender data. 
Defender Experts for Hunting is a proactive 
threat hunting service that goes beyond the 
endpoint to hunt across endpoints, Office 
365, cloud applications, and identity. Our

--- Página 29 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
How Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting works
Step 1: 
Microsoft hunting experts 
investigate and analyze 
potential malicious activity 
associated with human 
adversaries
Step 2: 
If the threat is found to be 
valid, analysts conduct a 
deep-dive investigation, 
gathering threat details, 
including scope and 
method of entry.
Step 3: 
Defender expert notifications 
appear as incidents in 
Microsoft 365 Defender, 
alerting you to the threat and 
sharing threat details to 
protect your organization’s 
endpoints, email, cloud apps, 
and identities. 
Formulate hypotheses to 
explain data suggesting a 
potential threat
Hunt for and collect 
observations to support 
hypotheses, with the help of 
automated systems
Find context using artificial 
intelligence and data from 
observations
Investigate and analyze the 
most critical potential threats 
first, using threat intelligence
Notify customers affected 
by a validated threat, with 
categorization based on behavior, 
characteristics, and impact.

--- Página 30 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Proactive threat hunting can help prepare you 
to address sophisticated modern threats more 
effectively.
Move beyond endpoints by extending the 
digital perimeter using XDR and following Zero 
Trust principles.
Commodity malware and human-operated 
attacks are two distinctly different types of 
attacks requiring different approaches.
Know the ABCs (authentication, backdoors, 
and communication) of threat hunting
Threat hunting guide 
takeaways
Thrive in your 
threat hunting
In this threat hunting guide, we’ve offered recommendations on 
how to identify and investigate threats. We hope that like a 
wilderness guide who can ease people’s experience in the wild, 
we have provided you with strategies you can implement for 
smoother threat hunting. Find out more about Microsoft’s threat
hunting service and visit the Microsoft Defender Experts for 
Hunting webpage. 
Plus, collaborate with fellow hunters on community queries in 
the Defender Portal. Review and contribute queries on GitHub.
Happy hunting!
Cyberattacks are as varied as they are 
insidious. Commodity malware can evolve to 
human-operated attacks rapidly.
Understanding common attack scenarios 
can help you prepare.
Building your own threat hunting program is 
challenging but could be useful (Hint: First 
study our maturity model and assess your 
organization’s level).
Another set of eyes never hurts – consult a 
Defender Expert to help with your 
investigations

--- Página 31 ---
T H R E A T  H U N T I N G  S U R V I V A L  G U I D E
Get started
Read how Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting offers 
proactive threat hunting.
Get details on Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting’s 
core features.
Read the Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting 
announcement and how to get started. 
Explore Microsoft’s security research and threat 
intelligence efforts
Check out our quarterly cyberthreat intelligence brief 
called Cyber Signals.
Bookmark the Microsoft Security Blog to stay aware 
of the latest security threats.
Learn more about the threat of ransomware as-a-service.
Learn more about protecting your organization from 
ransomware 
Learn more about human operated ransomware and 
how to build resilience against it
Incident response overview
Incident response playbooks

