=== Top 50 Cyber Security Interview Questions PDF (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
Top 50 Cyber Security 
Interview Questions 
 
Top Cyber Security Interview Questions 
1. What is Cryptography? 
2. What is the difference between Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption? 
3. What is the difference between IDS and IPS? 
4. Explain CIA triad. 
5. How is Encryption different from Hashing? 
6. What is a Firewall and why is it used? 
7. What 
is 
the 
difference 
between 
VA(Vulnerability 
Assessment) 
and 
PT(Penetration Testing)? 
8. What is a three-way handshake? 
9. What are the response codes that can be received from a Web Application? 
10. What is traceroute? Why is it used? 
This Cybersecurity Interview Questions blog is divided into two parts: Part A – 
Theoretical Cybersecurity 
Interview 
Questions and Part 
B 
– 
Scenario 
Based Cybersecurity Interview Questions.

--- Página 2 ---
Let’s get started with 
Part A-Theoretical Cyber Security Interview Questions 
1. What is Cryptography? 
Cryptography is the practice and study of techniques for securing information and 
communication mainly to protect the data from third parties that the data is not intended 
for. 
2. What is the difference between Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption? 
Basis of 
Comparison 
Symmetric Encryption 
Asymmetric Encryption 
Encryption key 
Same key for encryption & 
decryption 
Different keys for encryption & 
decryption 
Performance 
Encryption is fast but more 
vulnerable 
Encryption is slow due to high 
computation 
Algorithms 
DES, 3DES, AES and RC4 
Diffie-Hellman, RSA 
Purpose 
Used for bulk data 
transmission 
Often used for securely exchanging 
secret keys 
3. What is the difference between IDS and IPS? 
IDS is Intrusion Detection System and it only detects intrusions and the administrator 
has to take care of preventing the intrusion. Whereas, in IPS i.e., Intrusion Prevention 
System, the system detects the intrusion and also takes actions to prevent the intrusion. 
4. Explain CIA triad. 
CIA stands for Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability. CIA is a model that is 
designed to guide policies for Information Security. It is one of the most popular models 
used by organizations. 
Confidentiality 
The information should be accessible and readable only to authorized personnel. It should 
not be accessible by unauthorized personnel. The information should be strongly 
encrypted just in case someone uses hacking to access the data so that even if the data 
is accessed, it is not readable or understandable. 
Integrity 
Making sure the data has not been modified by an unauthorized entity. Integrity ensures 
that data is not corrupted or modified by unauthorized personnel. If an authorized

--- Página 3 ---
individual/system is trying to modify the data and the modification wasn’t successful, then 
the data should be reversed back and should not be corrupted. 
Availability 
The data should be available to the user whenever the user requires it. Maintaining of 
Hardware, upgrading regularly, Data Backups and Recovery, Network Bottlenecks should 
be taken care of. 
Find out our Cyber Security Training in Top Cities/Countries 
India 
USA 
Other Cities/Countries 
Bangalore 
New York 
UK 
Hyderabad 
Chicago 
London 
Delhi 
Atlanta 
Canada 
Chennai 
Houston 
Toronto 
Mumbai 
Los Angeles 
Australia 
Pune 
Boston 
UAE 
Kolkata 
Miami 
Dubai 
Ahmedabad 
San Francisco 
Philippines 
  
5. How is Encryption different from Hashing? 
Both Encryption and Hashing are used to convert readable data into an unreadable 
format. The difference is that the encrypted data can be converted back to original data 
by the process of decryption but the hashed data cannot be converted back to original 
data. 
6. What is a Firewall and why is it used? 
A Firewall is a network security system set on the boundaries of the system/network that 
monitors and controls network traffic. Firewalls are mainly used to protect the 
system/network from viruses, worms, malware, etc. Firewalls can also be to prevent 
remote access and content filtering. 
7. What is the difference between VA(Vulnerability Assessment) and 
PT(Penetration Testing)? 
Vulnerability Assessment is the process of finding flaws on the target. Here, the 
organization knows that their system/network has flaws or weaknesses and want to find 
these flaws and prioritize the flaws for fixing.

--- Página 4 ---
Penetration Testing is the process of finding vulnerabilities on the target. In this case, 
the organization would have set up all the security measures they could think of and would 
want to test if there is any other way that their system/network can be hacked. 
8. What is a three-way handshake? 
A three-way handshake is a method used in a TCP/IP network to create a connection 
between a host and a client. It’s called a three-way handshake because it is a three-
step method in which the client and server exchanges packets. The three steps are as 
follows: 
1. The client sends a SYN(Synchronize) packet to the server check if the server is up 
or has open ports 
2. The server sends SYN-ACK packet to the client if it has open ports 
3. The client acknowledges this and sends an ACK(Acknowledgment) packet back 
to the server 
9. What are the response codes that can be received from a Web 
Application? 
1xx 
– 
Informational 
responses 
2xx 
– 
Success 
3xx 
– 
Redirection 
4xx 
– 
Client-side 
error 
5xx – Server-side error 
Let us now go ahead and take a look at some of the other Cybersecurity Interview 
Questions 
10. What is traceroute? Why is it used? 
Traceroute is a tool that shows the path of a packet. It lists all the points (mainly routers) 
that the packet passes through. This is used mostly when the packet is not reaching its 
destination. Traceroute is used to check where the connection stops or breaks to identify 
the point of failure. 
11. What is the difference between HIDS and NIDS? 
HIDS(Host IDS) and NIDS(Network IDS) are both Intrusion Detection System and work 
for the same purpose i.e., to detect the intrusions. The only difference is that the HIDS is 
set up on a particular host/device. It monitors the traffic of a particular device and 
suspicious system activities. On the other hand, NIDS is set up on a network. It monitors 
traffic of all device of the network.

--- Página 5 ---
12. What are the steps to set up a firewall? 
Following are the steps to set up a firewall: 
1. Username/password: modify the default password for a firewall device 
2. Remote administration: Disable the feature of the remote administration 
3. Port forwarding: Configure appropriate port forwarding for certain applications to 
work properly, such as a web server or FTP server 
4. DHCP server: Installing a firewall on a network with an existing DHCP server will 
cause conflict unless the firewall’s DHCP is disabled 
5. Logging: To troubleshoot firewall issues or potential attacks, ensure that logging is 
enabled and understand how to view logs 
6. Policies: You should have solid security policies in place and make sure that the 
firewall is configured to enforce those policies. 
13. Explain SSL Encryption 
SSL(Secure Sockets Layer) is the industry-standard security technology creating 
encrypted connections between Web Server and a Browser. This is used to maintain data 
privacy and to protect the information in online transactions. The steps for establishing an 
SSL connection is as follows: 
1. A browser tries to connect to the webserver secured with SSL 
2. The browser sends a copy of its SSL certificate to the browser 
3. The browser checks if the SSL certificate is trustworthy or not. If it is trustworthy, 
then the browser sends a message to the web server requesting to establish an 
encrypted connection 
4. The web server sends an acknowledgment to start an SSL encrypted connection 
5. SSL encrypted communication takes place between the browser and the web 
server 
14. What steps will you take to secure a server? 
Secure servers use the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol for data encryption and 
decryption to protect data from unauthorized interception. 
Here are four simple ways to secure server: 
Step 1: Make sure you have a secure password for your root and administrator users 
Step 2: The next thing you need to do is make new users on your system. These will be 
the users you use to manage the system 
Step 3: Remove remote access from the default root/administrator accounts 
Step 4: The next step is to configure your firewall rules for remote access

--- Página 6 ---
15. Explain Data Leakage 
Data Leakage is an intentional or unintentional transmission of data from within the 
organization to an external unauthorized destination. It is the disclosure of confidential 
information to an unauthorized entity. Data Leakage can be divided into 3 categories 
based on how it happens: 
1. Accidental Breach: An entity unintentionally send data to an unauthorized person 
due to a fault or a blunder 
2. Intentional Breach: The authorized entity sends data to an unauthorized entity on 
purpose 
3. System Hack: Hacking techniques are used to cause data leakage 
Data Leakage can be prevented by using tools, software, and strategies known 
as DLP(Data Leakage Prevention) Tools. 
16. What are some of the common Cyberattacks? 
Following are some common cyber attacks that could adversely affect your system. 
1. Malware 
2. Phishing 
3. Password Attacks 
4. DDoS 
5. Man in the Middle 
6. Drive-By Downloads 
7. Malvertising 
8. Rogue Software

--- Página 7 ---
17. What is a Brute Force Attack? How can you prevent it? 
Brute Force is a way of finding out the right credentials by repetitively trying all the 
permutations and combinations of possible credentials. In most cases, brute force attacks 
are automated where the tool/software automatically tries to login with a list of credentials. 
There are various ways to prevent Brute Force attacks. Some of them are: 
 
Password Length: You can set a minimum length for password. The lengthier the 
password, the harder it is to find. 
 
Password Complexity: Including different formats of characters in the password 
makes brute force attacks harder. Using alpha-numeric passwords along with 
special characters, and upper and lower case characters increase the password 
complexity making it difficult to be cracked. 
 
Limiting Login Attempts: Set a limit on login failures. For example, you can set 
the limit on login failures as 3. So, when there are 3 consecutive login failures, 
restrict the user from logging in for some time, or send an Email or OTP to use to 
log in the next time. Because brute force is an automated process, limiting login 
attempts will break the brute force process. 
18. What is Port Scanning? 
Port Scanning is the technique used to identify open ports and service available on a 
host. Hackers use port scanning to find information that can be helpful to exploit 
vulnerabilities. Administrators use Port Scanning to verify the security policies of the 
network. Some of the common Port Scanning Techniques are: 
1. Ping Scan 
2. TCP Half-Open 
3. TCP Connect 
4. UDP 
5. Stealth Scanning 
Cybersecurity Interview Questions 
19. What are the different layers of the OSI model? 
An OSI model is a reference model for how applications communicate over a network. 
The purpose of an OSI reference is to guide vendors and developers so the digital 
communication products and software programs can interoperate.

--- Página 8 ---
Following are the OSI layers:
 
Physical Layer: Responsible for transmission of digital data from sender to receiver 
through the communication media, 
Data Link Layer: Handles the movement of data to and from the physical link. It is also 
responsible for encoding and decoding of data bits. 
 
 
Cyber Security Course 
Explore Curriculum 
 
Network Layer: Responsible for packet forwarding and providing routing paths for 
network communication. 
Transport Layer: Responsible for end-to-end communication over the network. It splits 
the data from the above layer and passes it to the Network Layer and then ensures that 
all the data has successfully reached at the receiver’s end.

--- Página 9 ---
Session Layer: Controls connection between the sender and the receiver. It is 
responsible for starting, ending, and managing the session and establishing, maintaining 
and synchronizing interaction between the sender and the receiver. 
Presentation Layer: It deals with presenting the data in a proper format and data 
structure instead of sending raw datagrams or packets. 
Application Layer: It provides an interface between the application and the network. It 
focuses on process-to-process communication and provides a communication interface. 
20. What is a VPN? 
Almost 
all 
Cybersecurity 
Interview 
Questions 
will 
have 
this 
question 
included. VPN stands for Virtual Private Network. It is used to create a safe and 
encrypted connection. When you use a VPN, the data from the client is sent to a point in 
the VPN where it is encrypted and then sent through the internet to another point. At this 
point, the data is decrypted and sent to the server. When the server sends a response, 
the response is sent to a point in the VPN where it is encrypted and this encrypted data 
is sent to another point in the VPN where it is decrypted. And finally, the decrypted data 
is sent to the client. The whole point of using a VPN is to ensure encrypted data transfer. 
21. What do you understand by Risk, Vulnerability & Threat in a network? 
Threat: Someone with the potential to harm a system or an organization 
Vulnerability: Weakness in a system that can be exploited by a potential hacker 
Risk: Potential for loss or damage when threat exploits a vulnerability 
22. How can identity theft be prevented? 
Here’s what you can do to prevent identity theft: 
 
 
o Ensure strong and unique password 
o Avoid sharing confidential information online, especially on social media 
o Shop from known and trusted websites 
o Use the latest version of the browsers 
o Install advanced malware and spyware tools 
o Use specialized security solutions against financial data 
o Always update your system and the software 
o Protect your SSN (Social Security Number)

--- Página 10 ---
23. What are black hat, white hat and grey hat hackers? 
Black hat hackers are known for having vast knowledge about breaking into computer 
networks. They can write malware which can be used to gain access to these systems. 
This type of hackers misuse their skills to steal information or use the hacked system for 
malicious purpose.  
White hat hackers use their powers for good deeds and so they are also called Ethical 
Hackers. Look out for our Ethical Hacking Course to learn more about the Ethical 
Hacking. These are mostly hired by companies as a security specialist that attempts to 
find and fix vulnerabilities and security holes in the systems. They use their skills to help 
make the security better.  
Anonymity is just a simple thing in Ethical Hacking & CyberSecurity. If you are 
interested in this domain, check Edureka’s CompTIA Security+ Certification Training. 
Grey hat hackers are an amalgamation of a white hat and black hat hacker. They look 
for system vulnerabilities without the owner’s permission. If they find any vulnerabilities, 
they report it to the owner. Unlike Black hat hackers, they do not exploit the vulnerabilities 
found.  
24. How often should you perform Patch management? 
Patch management should be done as soon as it is released. For windows, once the 
patch is released it should be applied to all machines, not later than one month. Same 
goes for network devices, patch it as soon as it is released. Proper patch management 
should be followed. 
25. How would you reset a password-protected BIOS configuration? 
Since BIOS is a pre-boot system it has its own storage mechanism for settings and 
preferences. A simple way to reset is by popping out the CMOS battery so that the 
memory storing the settings lose its power supply and as a result, it will lose its setting. 
26. Explain MITM attack and how to prevent it? 
A MITM(Man-in-the-Middle) attack is a type of attack where the hacker places himself in 
between the communication of two parties and steal the information. Suppose there are 
two parties A and B having a communication. Then the hacker joins this communication. 
He impersonates as party B to A and impersonates as party A in front of B. The data 
from both the parties are sent to the hacker and the hacker redirects the data to the 
destination party after stealing the data required. While the two parties think that they are 
communicating with each other, in reality, they are communicating with the hacker.

--- Página 11 ---
You can prevent MITM attack by using the following practices: 
 
Use VPN 
 
Use strong WEP/WPA encryption 
 
Use Intrusion Detection Systems 
 
Force HTTPS 
 
Public Key Pair Based Authentication 
27. Explain DDOS attack and how to prevent it? 
This again is an important Cybersecurity Interview Question. A DDOS(Distributed 
Denial of Service) attack is a cyberattack that causes the servers to refuse to provide 
services to genuine clients. DDOS attack can be classified into two types: 
1. Flooding attacks: In this type, the hacker sends a huge amount of traffic to the 
server which the server can not handle. And hence, the server stops functioning. 
This type of attack is usually executed by using automated programs that 
continuously send packets to the server. 
2. Crash attacks: In this type, the hackers exploit a bug on the server resulting in the 
system to crash and hence the server is not able to provide service to the clients. 
You can prevent DDOS attacks by using the following practices: 
 
Use Anti-DDOS services 
 
Configure Firewalls and Routers 
 
Use Front-End Hardware 
 
Use Load Balancing 
 
Handle Spikes in Traffic 
Cybersecurity Interview Questions 
28. Explain XSS attack and how to prevent it? 
XSS(Cross-Site Scripting) is a cyberattack that enables hackers to inject malicious 
client-side scripts into web pages. XSS can be used to hijack sessions and steal cookies, 
modify DOM, remote code execution, crash the server etc. 
You can prevent XSS attacks by using the following practices: 
 
Validate user inputs 
 
Sanitize user inputs 
 
Encode special characters 
 
Use Anti-XSS services/tools 
 
Use XSS  HTML Filter

--- Página 12 ---
29. What is an ARP and how does it work? 
Address Resolution Protocol (ARP)is a protocol for mapping an Internet Protocol 
address (IP address) to a physical machine address that is recognized in the local 
network. 
When an incoming packet destined for a host machine on a particular local area network 
arrives at a gateway, the gateway asks the ARP program to find a physical host or MAC 
address that matches the IP address. 
The ARP program looks in the ARP cache and, if it finds the address, provides it so that 
the packet can be converted to the right packet length and format and sent to the machine. 
If no entry is found for the IP address, ARP broadcasts a request packet in a special 
format to all the machines on the LAN to see if one machine knows that it has that IP 
address associated with it. 
30. What is port blocking within LAN? 
Restricting the users from accessing a set of services within the local area network is 
called port blocking. 
Stopping the source to not to access the destination node via ports. As the application 
works on the ports, so ports are blocked to restricts the access filling up the security holes 
in the network infrastructure. 
31. What protocols fall under TCP/IP internet layer? 
 TCP/IP 
 TCP/IP Protocol Examples 
 Application 
 NFS, NIS+, DNS, telnet, ftp, rlogin, rsh, rcp, RIP, RDISC, SNMP 
and others 
 Transport 
 TCP, UDP 
 Internet 
 IP, ARP, ICMP 
 Data Link 
 PPP, IEEE 802.2 
 Physical 
Network 
 Ethernet (IEEE 802.3) Token ring, RS-232, others 
32. What is a Botnet? 
A Botnet is a number of devices connected to the internet where each device has one or 
more bots running on it. The bots on the devices and malicious scripts used to hack a 
victim. Botnets can be used to steal data, send spams and execute a DDOS attack.

--- Página 13 ---
33. What are salted hashes? 
Salt is a random data. When a properly protected password system receives a new 
password, it creates a hash value of that password, a random salt value, and then the 
combined value is stored in its database. This helps to defend against dictionary attacks 
and known hash attacks. 
Example: If someone uses the same password on two different systems and they are 
being used using the same hashing algorithm, the hash value would be same, however, 
if even one of the system uses salt with the hashes, the value will be different. 
34. Explain SSL and TLS 
SSL is meant to verify the sender’s identity but it doesn’t search for anything more than 
that. SSL can help you track the person you are talking to but that can also be tricked at 
times. 
TLS is also an identification tool just like SSL, but it offers better security features. It 
provides additional protection to the data and hence SSL and TLS are often used together 
for better protection. 
35. What is data protection in transit vs data protection at rest? 
Data Protection in transit 
Data protection at rest 
When data is going from server to client 
When data just exists in its database 
or on its hard drive 
Effective Data protection measures for in-transit 
data are critical as data is less secure when in 
motion 
Data at rest is sometimes considered 
to be less vulnerable than data in 
transit 
36. What is 2FA and how can it be implemented for public websites? 
An extra layer of security that is known as “multi-factor authentication“. 
Requires not only a password and username but also something that only, and only, that 
user has on them, i.e. a piece of information only they should know or have immediately 
to hand – such as a physical token. 
Authenticator apps replace the need to obtain a verification code via text, voice call or 
email. 
37. What is Cognitive Cybersecurity? 
Cognitive Cybersecurity is an application of AI technologies patterned on human thought 
processes to detect threats and protect physical and digital systems.

--- Página 14 ---
Self-learning security systems use data mining, pattern recognition, and natural language 
processing to simulate the human brain, albeit in a high-powered computer model. 
38. What is the difference between VPN and VLAN? 
VPN 
VLAN 
Helps to group workstations that are 
not within the same locations into the 
same broadcast domain 
Related to remote access to the network of a 
company 
Means to logically segregate 
networks without physically 
segregating them with various 
switches 
Used to connect two points in a secured and 
encrypted tunnel 
Saves the data from prying eyes 
while in transit and no one on the net 
can capture the packets and read 
the data 
Does not involve any encryption technique but it 
is only used to slice up your logical network into 
different sections for the purpose of 
management and security 
39. Explain Phishing and how to prevent it? 
Phishing is a Cyberattack in which a hacker disguises as a trustworthy person or 
business and attempt to steal sensitive financial or personal information through 
fraudulent email or instant message. 
You can prevent Phishing attacks by using the following practices: 
 
Don’t enter sensitive information in the webpages that you don’t trust 
 
Verify the site’s security 
 
Use Firewalls 
 
Use AntiVirus Software that has Internet Security 
 
Use Anti-Phishing Toolbar 
40. Explain SQL Injection and how to prevent it? 
SQL Injection (SQLi) is a code injection attack where an attacker manipulates the data 
being sent to the server to execute malicious SQL statements to control a web 
application’s database server, thereby accessing, modifying and deleting unauthorized 
data. This attack is mainly used to take over database servers. 
You can prevent SQL Injection attacks by using the following practices: 
 
Use prepared statements 
 
Use Stored Procedures 
 
Validate user input

--- Página 15 ---
This brings us to the end of Theory Based Cybersecurity Interview Questions 
 
Part B – Scenario Based Cybersecurity Interview 
Questions 
1. Here’s a situation- You receive the following email from the help desk: 
Dear XYZ Email user, 
To create space for more users we’re deleting all inactive email accounts. Here’s what 
you have to send to save your account from getting deleted: 
 
Name (first and last): 
 
Email Login: 
 
Password: 
 
Date of birth: 
 
Alternate email 
If we don’t receive the above information from you by the end of the week, your email 
account will be terminated. 
If you’re a user what do you do? Justify your answer. 
This email is a classic example of “phishing” – trying to trick you into “biting”. The 
justification is the generalized way of addressing the receiver which is used in mass spam 
emails. 
Above that, a corporate company will never ask for personal details on mail. 
They want your information. Don’t respond to email, instant messages (IM), texts, phone 
calls, etc., asking you for your password or other private information. 
You should never disclose your password to anyone, even if they say they work for UCSC, 
ITS, or other campus organizations. 
2. A friend of yours sends an e-card to your mail. You have to click on the 
attachment to get the card. 
What do you do? Justify your answer 
There are four risks here: 
 
Some attachments contain viruses or other malicious programs, so just in general, 
it’s risky to open unknown or unsolicited attachments.

--- Página 16 ---
 
Also, in some cases just clicking on a malicious link can infect a computer, so 
unless you are sure a link is safe, don’t click on it. 
 
Email addresses can be faked, so just because the email says it is from someone 
you know, you can’t be certain of this without checking with the person. 
 
Finally, some websites and links look legitimate, but they’re really hoaxes designed 
to steal your information. 
3. One of the staff members in XYZ subscribes to many free magazines. 
Now, to activate her subscriptions one of the magazines asked for her 
month of birth, second asked for her year of birth, the other one asked for 
her maiden name. 
What do you infer from this situation? Justify. 
All three newsletters probably have the same parent company or are distributed through 
the same service. The parent company or service can combine individual pieces of 
seemingly-harmless information and use or sell it for identity theft 
It is even possible that there is a fourth newsletter that asks for a day of birth as one of 
the activation questions 
Often questions about personal information are optional. In addition to being suspicious 
about situations like the one described here, never provide personal information when it 
is not legitimately necessary, or to people or companies, you don’t personally know. 
4. In our computing labs, print billing is often tied to the user’s 
login. Sometimes people call to complain about bills for printing they 
never did only to find out that the bills are, indeed, correct. 
What do you infer from this situation? Justify. 
Sometimes they realize they loaned their account to a friend who couldn’t remember 
his/her password, and the friend did the printing. Thus the charges. It’s also possible that 
somebody came in behind them and used their account 
This is an issue with shared or public computers in general. If you don’t log out of the 
computer properly when you leave, someone else can come in behind you and retrieve 
what you were doing, use your accounts, etc. Always log out of all accounts, quit 
programs, and close browser windows before you walk away. 
5. There is this case that happened in my computer lab. A friend of mine 
used their yahoo account at a computer lab on campus. She ensured that 
her account was not left open before she left the lab. Someone came after 
her and used the same browser to re-access her account. and they started 
sending emails from it.

--- Página 17 ---
What do you think might be going on here? 
The first person probably didn’t log out of her account, so the new person could just go to 
history and access her account. 
Another possibility is that she did log out, but didn’t clear her web cache. (This is done 
through the browser menu to clear pages that the browser has saved for future use.) 
6. Two different offices on campus are working to straighten out an error 
in an employee’s bank account due to a direct deposit mistake. 
Office #1 emails the correct account and deposit information to office #2, which promptly 
fixes the problem. 
The employee confirms with the bank that everything has, indeed, been straightened out. 
What is wrong here? 
Account and deposit information is sensitive data that could be used for identity theft. 
Sending this or any kind of sensitive information by email is very risky because email is 
typically not private or secure. Anyone who knows how can access it anywhere along its 
route. 
As an alternative, the two offices could have called each other or worked with ITS to send 
the information a more secure way. 
7. The mouse on your computer screen starts to move around on its own 
and click on things on your desktop. What do you do? 
a) Call your co-workers over so they can see 
b) Disconnect your computer from the network 
c) Unplug your mouse 
d) Tell your supervisor 
e) Turn your computer off 
f) Run anti-virus 
g) All of the above 
Select all the options that apply. 
Right answer is B & D.

--- Página 18 ---
This is definitely suspicious. Immediately report the problem to your supervisor and the 
ITS Support Center: itrequest.ucsc.edu, 459-HELP (4357), help@ucsc.edu or Kerr Hall 
room 54, M-F 8AM-5PM 
Also, since it seems possible that someone is controlling the computer remotely, it is best 
if you can disconnect the computer from the network (and turn off wireless if you have it) 
until help arrives. If possible, don’t turn off the computer. 
8. Below is a list of passwords pulled out a database. 
A. @#$)*&^% 
B. akHGksmLN 
C.UcSc4Evr! 
D.Password1 
Which of the following passwords meets UCSC’s password requirements? 
Answer is UcSc4Evr! 
This is the only choice that meets all of the following UCSC requirements: 
At least 8 characters in length 
Contains at least 3 of the following 4 types of characters: lower case letters, upper case 
letters, numbers, special characters 
 
 
Cyber Security Course 
Weekday / Weekend BatchesSee Batch Details 
 
Not a word preceded or followed by a digit 
9. You receive an email from your bank telling you there is a problem with 
your account. The email provides instructions and a link so you can log 
into your account and fix the problem.

--- Página 19 ---
What should you do? 
Delete the email. Better yet, use the web client (e.g. gmail, yahoo mail, etc.) and report it 
as spam or phishing, then delete it. 
Any unsolicited email or phone call asking you to enter your account information, disclose 
your password, financial account information, social security number, or other personal 
or private information is suspicious – even if it appears to be from a company you are 
familiar with. Always contact the sender using a method you know is legitimate to verify 
that the message is from them. 
10. A while back, the IT folks got a number of complaints that one of our 
campus computers was sending out Viagra spam. They checked it out, 
and the reports were true: a hacker had installed a program on the 
computer that made it automatically send out tons of spam email without 
the computer owner’s knowledge. 
How do you think the hacker got into the computer to set this up? 
This was actually the result of a hacked password. Using passwords that can’t be easily 
guessed, and protecting your passwords by not sharing them or writing them down can 
help to prevent this. Passwords should be at least 8 characters in length and use a mixture 
of upper and lower case letters, numbers, and symbols. 
Even though in this case it was a hacked password, other things that could possibly lead 
to this are: 
 
Out of date patches/updates 
 
No anti-virus software or out of date anti-virus software 
I hope these Cybersecurity Interview Questions will help you perform well in your 
interview. To become expert join our Cyber Security Masters Program today. And I wish 
you all the best! 
If you wish to learn more and build a colorful career, then check out our Cyber Security 
Course in India which comes with instructor-led live training and real-life project 
experience. This training will help you understand Linux Administration in-depth and help 
you achieve mastery over the subject. 
You can also take a look at our newly launched course on CompTIA 
Security+ Certification which is a first-of-a-kind official partnership between Edureka & 
CompTIA Security+. It offers you a chance to earn a global certification that focuses on 
core cybersecurity skills which are indispensable for security and network 
administrators.

