=== Using BIA to Inform Risk Prioritization and Response.pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
NIST Interagency Report 
NIST IR 8286D 
Using Business Impact Analysis 
to Inform Risk Prioritization 
and Response
Stephen Quinn 
Nahla Ivy 
Julie Chua 
Matthew Barrett 
Larry Feldman 
Daniel Topper 
Greg Witte 
R. K. Gardner 
This publication is available free of charge from: 
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286D

--- Página 2 ---
NIST Interagency Report  
NIST IR 8286D 
Using Business Impact Analysis  
to Inform Risk Prioritization  
and Response 
 
Stephen Quinn 
Matthew Barrett 
 
Computer Security Division 
CyberESI Consulting Group, Inc. 
 
Information Technology Laboratory 
Baltimore, MD 
 
 
 
 
Nahla Ivy 
Larry Feldman 
 
Enterprise Risk Management Office 
Daniel Topper 
 
Office of Financial Resource Management 
Greg Witte 
 
 
Huntington Ingalls Industries
 
 
Annapolis Junction, MD 
 
Julie Chua 
 
 
Office of Information Security 
R. K. Gardner 
 
Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) 
New World Technology Partners 
 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
Annapolis, MD 
November 2022 
 
U.S. Department of Commerce  
Gina M. Raimondo, Secretary 
National Institute of Standards and Technology  
Laurie E. Locascio, NIST Director and Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology

--- Página 3 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials may be identified in this document in order to describe an 
experimental procedure or concept adequately. Such identification is not intended to imply recommendation or 
endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), nor is it intended to imply that the 
entities, materials, or equipment are necessarily the best available for the purpose. 
There may be references in this publication to other publications currently under development by NIST in 
accordance with its assigned statutory responsibilities. The information in this publication, including concepts and 
methodologies, may be used by federal agencies even before the completion of such companion publications. Thus, 
until each publication is completed, current requirements, guidelines, and procedures, where they exist, remain 
operative. For planning and transition purposes, federal agencies may wish to closely follow the development of 
these new publications by NIST.   
Organizations are encouraged to review all draft publications during public comment periods and provide feedback 
to NIST. Many NIST cybersecurity publications, other than the ones noted above, are available at 
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications. 
NIST Technical Series Policies 
Copyright, Fair Use, and Licensing Statements 
NIST Technical Series Publication Identifier Syntax 
Publication History 
Approved by the NIST Editorial Review Board on 2022-11-10 
How to Cite this NIST Technical Series Publication:  
Quinn SD, Ivy N, Chua J, Barrett M, Feldman L, Topper D, Witte GA, Gardner RK (2022) Using Business Impact 
Analysis to Inform Risk Prioritization and Response. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, 
MD), NIST Interagency or Internal Report (IR) NIST IR 8286D. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286D 
Author ORCID iDs 
Stephen D. Quinn: 0000-0003-1436-684X 
Nahla Ivy: 0000-0003-4741-422X 
Matthew Barrett: 0000-0002-7689-427X 
Larry Feldman: 0000-0003-3888-027X 
Daniel Topper: 0000-0003-2612-7547 
Gregory A. Witte: 0000-0002-5425-1097 
Julie Chua: External author, no ORCID iD 
Robert Gardner: External author, no ORCID iD 
Contact Information 
nistir8286@nist.gov  
 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Attn: Applied Cybersecurity Division, Information Technology Laboratory 
100 Bureau Drive (Mail Stop 2000) Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2000 
All comments are subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

--- Página 4 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
i 
Abstract 
While business impact analysis (BIA) has historically been used to determine availability 
requirements for business continuity, the process can be extended to provide a broad 
understanding of the potential impacts of any type of loss on the enterprise mission. The 
management of enterprise risk requires a comprehensive understanding of mission-essential 
functions (i.e., what must go right) and the potential risk scenarios that jeopardize those 
functions (i.e., what might go wrong). The process described in this publication helps leaders 
determine which assets enable the achievement of mission objectives and evaluate the factors 
that render assets as critical and sensitive. Based on those factors, enterprise leaders provide risk 
directives (i.e., risk appetite and tolerance) as input to the BIA. System owners then apply the 
BIA to developing asset categorization, impact values, and requirements for the protection of 
critical or sensitive assets. The output of the BIA is the foundation for the Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM)/Cybersecurity Risk Management (CSRM) integration process, as described 
in the NIST Interagency Report (IR) 8286 series, and enables consistent prioritization, response, 
and communication regarding information security risk. 
Keywords 
business impact analysis; cybersecurity risk management; cybersecurity risk register; enterprise 
risk management; information and communications technology. 
Reports on Computer Systems Technology 
The Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) at the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) promotes the U.S. economy and public welfare by providing technical 
leadership for the Nation’s measurement and standards infrastructure. ITL develops tests, test 
methods, reference data, proof of concept implementations, and technical analyses to advance 
the development and productive use of information technology. ITL’s responsibilities include the 
development of management, administrative, technical, and physical standards and guidelines for 
the cost-effective security and privacy of other than national security-related information in 
federal information systems.

--- Página 5 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
ii 
Audience 
The primary audience for this publication includes public- and private-sector cybersecurity 
professionals at all levels who understand cybersecurity but may be unfamiliar with the details of 
enterprise risk management (ERM). The secondary audience includes both federal and non-
Federal Government corporate officers, high-level executives, ERM officers and staff members, 
and others who understand ERM but may be unfamiliar with the details of cybersecurity. All 
readers are expected to gain an improved understanding of how CSRM and ERM complement 
and relate to each other as well as the benefits of integrating their use. 
Patent Disclosure Notice 
NOTICE: ITL has requested that holders of patent claims whose use may be required for 
compliance with the guidance or requirements of this publication disclose such patent claims to 
ITL. However, holders of patents are not obligated to respond to ITL calls for patents and ITL 
has not undertaken a patent search in order to identify which, if any, patents may apply to this 
publication. 
As of the date of publication and following call(s) for the identification of patent claims whose 
use may be required for compliance with the guidance or requirements of this publication, no 
such patent claims have been identified to ITL.  
No representation is made or implied by ITL that licenses are not required to avoid patent 
infringement in the use of this publication.

--- Página 6 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
iii 
Table of Contents 
Executive Summary .................................................................................................................... 1 
 
Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 3 
 
Benefits of Extending the BIA for Risk Types ................................................................ 4 
 
Foundational Practices for Business Impact Analysis ................................................... 5 
 
Document Structure ...................................................................................................... 5 
 
Cataloging and Categorizing Assets Based on Enterprise Value .................................. 6 
 
Identification of Enterprise Business Asset Types ........................................................ 6 
 
The Business Impact Analysis Process ........................................................................ 7 
 
Determining Asset Value to Support CSRM Activities .................................................. 9 
 
Determining Loss Scenarios and Their Consequences .............................................. 10 
 
Business Impact Analysis in Terms of Criticality and Sensitivity ................................. 12 
 
Using a BIA to Record Interdependencies .................................................................. 13 
 
Consistent Business Impact Analysis Through an Enterprise Approach .................... 14 
 
Using a BIA to Support an Enterprise Registry of System Assets .............................. 15 
 
Conclusion ......................................................................................................................... 16 
References ................................................................................................................................. 17 
Appendix A. 
List of Symbols, Abbreviations, and Acronyms ........................................... 18 
List of Tables 
Table 1. Examples of Enterprise Business Asset Types ........................................................ 6 
List of Figures 
Fig. 1. Integration of the BIA Process with Cybersecurity Risk Management ...................... 7 
Fig. 2. Level 3 BIA Activities ...................................................................................................... 8 
Fig. 3. Impacts of Enterprise Assets for a Business or Agency ........................................... 10 
Fig. 4. Elements of Information Risk Identification (from NIST IR 8286A) ........................... 11

--- Página 7 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
1 
Acknowledgments 
The authors wish to thank all individuals, organizations, and enterprises that contributed to the 
creation of this document. This includes Lisa Carnahan, Jim Foti, Amy Mahn, Matt Scholl, 
Kevin Stine and Isabel Van Wyk of NIST and Mat Heyman of Impresa Management Solutions. 
The authors appreciate the support of the United States Department of Health and Human 
Services and the Federal Cyber-ERM Community of Interest, including the following members 
who provided specific comments: John Antlitz, M. Creary, Scott S. Crumbaugh, L. Dix, Debra 
Elkins, Patrick Hampton, Dana Mason, Khairun Pannah, Katherine Polevitzky, R. Register, N. 
Rodriguez, Mikki Smith, and Jing Williams. The authors also thank Joel Crook of Consolidated 
Nuclear Security, LLC; John Irving of European Space Research and Technology Centre; Ryan 
Wagner of Google; Kelly Hood of Optic Cyber Solutions; and Steve Dance of RiskCentric; and 
individual commenters Simon Burson and Norman Marks.

--- Página 8 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
1 
Executive Summary 
Risk is measured in terms of impact on enterprise mission, so it is vital to understand the various 
information and technology (IT) assets whose functions enable that mission. Each asset has a 
value to the enterprise. For government enterprises, many of those IT assets are key components 
for supporting critical services provided to citizens. For corporations, IT assets directly influence 
enterprise capital and valuation, and IT risks can have a direct impact on the balance sheet or 
budget. For each type of enterprise, it is both vital and challenging to determine the conditions 
that will truly impact a mission. Government agencies must provide critical services while 
adhering to priority directives from senior leaders. In the commercial world, mission priority is 
often driven by long-term goals and factors that might impact the next quarter’s earnings call. 
Therefore, it is highly important to continually analyze and understand the enterprise resources 
that enable enterprise objectives and that can be jeopardized by cybersecurity risks. 
The NIST Interagency Report (IR) 8286 series has coalesced around the risk register as a 
construct for storing and a process for communicating risk data [NISTIR8286]. Another critical 
artifact of risk management that serves as both a construct and a means of communication with 
the risk register is the Business Impact Analysis (BIA) Register. The BIA examines the potential 
impacts associated with the loss or degradation of an enterprise’s technology-related assets based 
on a qualitative or quantitative assessment of the criticality and sensitivity of those assets and 
stores the results in the BIA Register. An asset criticality or resource dependency assessment 
identifies and prioritizes the information assets that support the enterprise’s critical missions. 
Similarly, assessments of asset sensitivity identify and prioritize information assets that store, 
process, or transmit information that must not be modified or disclosed to unauthorized parties. 
In the cybersecurity realm, the use of the BIA has historically been limited to calculations of 
quality-based and time-based objectives for incident handling (including continuity of operations 
and disaster recovery).  
Because the BIA serves as a nexus for understanding risk (which is the measurement of 
uncertainty on the mission), it provides a basis for risk appetite and tolerance values as part of 
the enterprise risk strategy.1 That guidance supports performance and risk metrics based on the 
relative value of enterprise assets to communicate and monitor Cybersecurity Risk Management2 
(CSRM) activities, including measures determined to be key performance indicators (KPIs) and 
key risk indicators (KRIs). The BIA supports asset classification that drives requirements, risk 
communications, and monitoring. 
Expanding use of the BIA to include confidentiality and integrity considerations supports 
comprehensive risk analysis. The basis of asset valuation on enterprise impact helps to better 
align risk decisions to enterprise risk strategy. CSRM/ERM integration helps to complete the risk 
cycle by informing future iterations of impact analysis based on previous information gained 
through cybersecurity risk register (CSRR) aggregation, as detailed in NIST IR 8286C. As 
organizational and enterprise leaders gain an understanding of aggregate risk exposure and 
composite impact, that information helps adjust risk expectations (including business impact 
 
1 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-123 defines risk appetite as “the broad-based amount of risk an organization is willing to 
accept in pursuit of its mission/vision. It is established by the organization’s most senior level leadership and serves as the guidepost to set 
strategy and select objectives.” The same document defines risk tolerance as “the acceptable level of variance in performance relative to the 
achievement of objectives.” 
2 Cybersecurity Risk Management, or CSRM, is the process of managing uncertainty on or within information and technology.

--- Página 9 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
2 
guidance to ensure an ongoing balance among asset value, resource optimization, and risk 
considerations). 
The BIA process enables system owners to record the benefits provided by an asset by 
considering the contribution to the enterprise, particularly in terms of mission, finance, and 
reputational aspects. Once informed about how each asset supports enterprise value, system 
owners can then work with risk managers to determine the implications of uncertainty on those 
assets. 
It is more critical than ever to have centralized and reliable asset information recorded in the BIA 
Register since enterprises rely on various types of information and communications technology 
(ICT) resources, which are increasingly targeted by adversaries. The BIA process provides 
information that can be consistently recorded in a centralized registry of important asset 
management information, such as system ownership, contact information for key stakeholders, 
and characteristics of the physical devices (or services). Since asset management is an important 
element of cybersecurity risk management, this information is quite valuable for protecting the 
asset, detecting cyber events, responding quickly to potential issues, and recovering services 
when necessary. 
Public- and private-sector enterprises must maintain a continual understanding of potential 
business impacts, the risk conditions that might lead to those impacts, and the steps being taken 
to address those impacts (as recorded in various risk registers and, ultimately, in the Enterprise 
Risk Profile). In many cases, when a company or agency is asked about risks, they are actually 
being asked to describe potential impacts. Companies must describe the risk factors that could 
have a material adverse effect on the enterprise’s financial position, its ability to operate, or its 
corporate cash flow. Agencies must report to legislative and regulatory stakeholders about 
adverse impacts that could impair agency missions and funding. Use of the BIA methodology to 
categorize the criticality and sensitivity of enterprise assets enables effective risk management 
and the subsequent integration of reporting and monitoring at the enterprise level to ensure that 
risk and resource utilization are optimized in light of the value of those assets.

--- Página 10 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
3 
 Introduction 
Risk is measured, at least in part, in terms of impact on the enterprise mission and the likelihood 
of events, so it is vital to understand the various information and communications technology 
(ICT) assets whose functions enable that mission, as well as any potential uncertainties that 
jeopardize those assets. Each asset has a value to the enterprise. For government enterprises, 
many of those ICT assets are key components for supporting critical services provided to 
citizens. For corporations, ICT assets directly influence enterprise capital and valuation, and ICT 
risks can directly impact the balance sheet or budget. For each type of enterprise, it can be 
challenging to determine what conditions will truly impact the mission. Today’s government 
agencies continue to provide critical services, yet they must also adhere to priority directives 
from senior leaders. In the commercial world, mission priority is often driven by long-term goals 
as well as impacts on the next quarter’s earnings call. Therefore, it is important to continually 
analyze and understand the enterprise resources that enable enterprise objectives and that can be 
jeopardized by cybersecurity risks. 
The NIST Interagency Report (IR) 8286 series has coalesced around the risk register as a 
construct for storing and a process for communicating risk data [NISTIR8286]. The series of 
publications demonstrates how to better integrate cybersecurity with ERM. The series helps 
entities effectively quantify, finance, and drive their cybersecurity programs commensurate with 
enterprise risk exposure, as well as shareholder and stakeholder value.  It highlights the need for 
ongoing bidirectional communication between ERM and risk programs, recognizing that risk 
disciplines both inform and receive direction from ERM. Specifically, the communication of risk 
appetite statements from the ERM portfolio is a way for risk programs to better identify and 
monitor risks using a variety of related methods, such as risk tolerance statements, key 
performance indicators, key risk indicators, and controls. The NIST IR 8286 series also 
formalizes the use of risk registers to communicate risks and risk responses between program 
and portfolio levels. It highlights industry best practices for coordination by elevating risks 
within an organization for oversight and escalating risks within an organization for higher-level 
ownership. NIST IR 8286 is supported by three supplemental IRs: 
1. NIST IR 8286A details the context, scenario identification, and analysis of the likelihood 
and impacts of cybersecurity risk and methods to convey that risk information, such as 
cybersecurity risk registers (CSRRs) and risk detail records. 
2. NIST IR 8286B describes ways of applying risk analysis to prioritize cybersecurity risk, 
evaluate and select appropriate risk responses, and communicate risk activities as part of 
an enterprise CSRM strategy. 
3. NIST IR 8286C describes processes for aggregating information from CSRM activities 
throughout the enterprise. As that information is integrated and harmonized, 
organizational and enterprise leaders monitor the achievement of risk objectives, consider 
any changes to risk strategy, and use the combined information to maintain awareness of 
risk factors and positive risks (or opportunities). 
Another critical artifact of risk management that serves as both a construct and a means of 
communication with the risk register is the Business Impact Analysis (BIA) Register. The BIA 
examines the potential impact associated with the loss or degradation of an enterprise’s 
information assets based on a qualitative or quantitative assessment of the criticality and 
sensitivity of those assets. An asset criticality or resource dependency assessment identifies and

--- Página 11 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
4 
prioritizes the information assets that support the enterprise’s critical missions. Similarly, 
assessments of asset sensitivity identify and prioritize resources that store, process, or transmit 
any information that must not be modified or disclosed to unauthorized parties. 
Identifying and Estimating Cybersecurity Risk for Enterprise Risk Management, NIST IR 
8286A, points out that:  
…the first prerequisite for risk identification is the determination of 
enterprise assets that could be affected by risk. Assets are not limited to 
technology; they include any resource that helps to achieve the mission 
objectives (e.g., people, facilities, critical data, intellectual property, 
services). 
Section 2 (specifically subsection 2.2.1.1) of that NIST IR further describes BIA as a helpful 
process “to consistently evaluate, record, and monitor the criticality and sensitivity of enterprise 
assets. The BIA categorization can, in turn, inform the establishment of risk tolerance levels.” 
 
Benefits of Extending the BIA for Risk Types 
The BIA is broadly recognized as a proven method for business continuity and disaster recovery 
planning and prioritization. BIA processes and templates enable the discussion and 
documentation of recovery objectives and service delivery criteria for important business 
applications. Availability considerations, however, only comprise a portion of the types of 
cybersecurity risks that an enterprise faces. In fact, many recent attack patterns indicate that an 
adversary is likely to combine attack types. For example, a criminal might encrypt important 
company information (causing availability impact) while also threatening to disclose those same 
sensitive corporate records (causing confidentiality impact) unless a ransom is paid. A 
consideration of the potential harmful impacts of loss on important assets enables risk planning 
and prepares for the completion of cybersecurity risk registers (CSRRs), as described in this 
NIST IR 8286 series. 
Enterprise stakeholders can also use the BIA process to identify enterprise resources that use 
critical information types. In addition to internal reasons for protecting critical and sensitive 
information, enterprises may also need to categorize assets for mandatory external compliance. 
Many regulations and contractual requirements stipulate that certain critical and sensitive 
information must be protected, so the BIA determination helps organizations understand where 
those mandates apply.  
The BIA provides a solid foundation for identifying, monitoring, and communicating about 
potential impacts related to the loss of confidentiality, integrity, and availability. This supports 
the process that has been described throughout the NIST IR 8286 series – applying an 
understanding of enterprise strategy and risk direction to guide cybersecurity risk management3 
(CSRM) and to record and communicate CSRM activities in support of ERM objectives. 
 
3 Cybersecurity Risk Management, or CSRM, is the process of managing uncertainty on or within information and technology.

--- Página 12 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
5 
 
Foundational Practices for Business Impact Analysis 
To gain the enterprise benefits of BIAs for consistent prioritization and risk assessment, there 
must be a consistent application of the processes and forms used. When impact analysis is 
performed in a structured and repeatable manner, the impact assertions and resulting decisions 
are more reliable.4 To support a consistent analysis of business impact, senior leaders define 
clear criteria for criticality and sensitivity. These criteria should be reviewed periodically and 
adjusted as needed. Guidance should also direct those performing a BIA to consider the worst-
case scenario when determining potential impacts, such as a disruption to an e-commerce 
website on the busiest day of the sales year. 
As with many elements of risk management, it is usually more important to be consistent than to 
be exactly precise in analytic results. Even if the actual calculation of the business impact of a 
loss might not be exact, that figure can be adjusted through subsequent iterations, and an 
understanding of the relative priority and severity of a loss still enables effective decision-
making. 
 
Document Structure 
The remainder of this document is organized into the following major sections: 
• Section 2 describes specific considerations for the documentation and analysis of 
business impacts that result in a full or partial loss of the confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability of a mission-essential resource. 
• Section 3 provides a conclusion that summarizes this report and points out relevant 
connections to other NIST publications, including companion documents from the NIST 
IR 8286 series. 
• Appendix A contains a list of the acronyms used in the document. 
 
 
 
4 Section 2.2 provides details regarding a BIA process that can be consistently applied in an enterprise.

--- Página 13 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
6 
 Cataloging and Categorizing Assets Based on Enterprise Value 
Public- and private-sector enterprises use a significant array of assets to accomplish their 
missions. While the term “asset” may immediately call to mind technical equipment, assets cover 
a much broader set of resources. An asset may be tangible (e.g., a physical item such as 
hardware, firmware, computing platform, network device, or other technology component) or 
intangible (e.g., data, information, software, trademark, copyright, patent, intellectual property, 
or reputation). The value of an asset is driven by stakeholders based on the enterprise’s mission. 
Practitioners should keep in mind that intangible assets (e.g., reputation, public confidence, 
institutional knowledge, and intellectual property) are often impacted by attacks. 
 
Identification of Enterprise Business Asset Types 
To inform risk identification and analysis, the reviewer must begin with the types of information 
that might be impacted. For ICT assets, those are primarily risks to information-related systems 
but also include operational technology that supports transactions, sensors, and cyber-physical 
control signals.5 Some examples are provided in Table 1.  
Table 1. Examples of Enterprise Business Asset Types 
Asset Type 
Description 
Examples 
Information-related 
Items (Tangible) 
The physical assets needed to 
support operations, such as 
financial records, customer data, or 
supporting systems 
Facilities, personnel, 
hardware, firmware, 
computing platform, network 
device, or other technology 
component 
Information-related 
Items (Intangible) 
General information needed to 
support operations, such as  
financial records, customer data, or 
supporting systems 
Data, information, software, 
trademark, patent, intellectual 
property, image, or reputation 
Transactions 
Information related to or resulting 
from a specific business-related 
interaction 
Product sale, agency service, 
non-profit grant provision 
Control Signals 
An electronic command intended to 
control the functions of an 
automated system or infrastructure 
Command to close a cyber-
physical valve, electronic 
message to close an electrical 
breaker 
 
5 Specifics about the security and reliability of operational technology and other cyber-physical systems are available throughout many NIST 
publications, including the Framework for Cyber-Physical Systems, NIST Special Publication (SP) 1500-201, which is available at 
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1500-201.

--- Página 14 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
7 
Asset Type 
Description 
Examples 
Sensor Readings 
Information produced by dedicated 
device types to convert physical 
process variables into control 
signals to monitor or manage an 
automated system 
Alarms and indicators (e.g., 
pipeline pressure, system 
temperature) 
 
The Business Impact Analysis Process 
To consider the possible impacts of loss on an asset, one must first determine the value of the 
asset to the enterprise. While the direct replacement costs of asset components are a factor in that 
valuation, an asset’s value is directly dependent on the extent to which it helps achieve the 
organization’s objectives (or to support other assets’ ability to do so). Understanding the 
enterprise value of an asset requires an understanding of “what needs to go right” to accomplish 
the mission.  
Analysis of potential impact needs to begin with consideration of the mission impact of a loss or 
degradation of the asset from an enterprise perspective. The interruption of, impairment of, or 
unauthorized disclosure from a key resource is likely to cause financial, reputational, and 
operational implications for the enterprise with potential fiscal, regulatory, or competition 
consequences. Through collaboration among leaders and operational staff, understanding the 
importance of the asset (including the purpose of the resource, potentially including the data 
types therein) will help inform risk analysis regarding confidentiality, integrity, and availability 
requirements. 
Figure 1 illustrates the integration of the business impact analysis process with the cybersecurity 
risk management (CSRM) processes described throughout the NIST IR 8286 series. 
 
Fig. 1. Integration of the BIA Process with Cybersecurity Risk Management

--- Página 15 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
8 
BIA activities, described in more detail below, should be performed on the enterprise and system 
levels (i.e., Level 1 and Level 3). The analysis is highly dependent on Level 2, as depicted in 
Step E of Figure 1. The process in Figure 1 is described below: 
• Step A – Based on the enterprise mission, executives identify the products and business 
processes that are essential to the successful operation of the enterprise. Based on that 
list, the executives and senior leaders identify the enterprise-level assets6 that enable 
those functions. The identification of enterprise-level assets should consider the 
interdependencies of systems and assets. Those assets inherit the criticality/priority of the 
functions they support. 
• Step B – Leaders establish and communicate the risk appetite associated with those 
enterprise assets, and organizational managers determine the resulting risk tolerance.
 
Fig. 2. Level 3 BIA Activities 
• Step C – As part of the CSRM process, the system 
owner will determine the extent to which every 
system or activity enables a mission- or business-
critical function (as illustrated in Figure 2). The 
criticality and priority direction from leaders, 
expressed through risk appetite and risk tolerance 
statements (Step B), is used to help determine what 
the impact of losses would be on confidentiality, 
integrity, or availability. That impact understanding 
and the basis for those determinations are recorded 
in the system BIA Register.7
• 
Step D – The analysis and results provide the input into the CSRM process illustrated in 
the diagram and described in NIST IRs 8286A, 8286B, and 8286C.  
• 
Step E – Residual risks, particularly those that impact critical and sensitive resources, are 
highlighted in the Level 2 risk registers as those CSRRs are normalized and aggregated. 
Of important note is that cybersecurity is one component of technology risk that feeds 
operational risks (OpRisk). 
• 
Step F – Enterprise leaders consider the results of ongoing risk activities reported through 
Level 2 CSRRs as integrated into an Enterprise Cybersecurity Risk Register (E-CSRR) 
and assess the aggregate impact of the Level 3 and Level 2 risks. This understanding of 
the composite impact on mission/business-critical functions (including OpRisk) is used to 
prioritize risk response based on enterprise finance, mission, and reputation 
consequences.8 Composite understanding also helps to confirm that risks are within the 
stated risk appetite or to identify necessary adjustments (e.g., implementing controls, risk 
mitigation). If adjustments are necessary, an action plan is created that will result in the 
appropriate increase or decrease of risk appetite to achieve the appropriate impact levels. 
 
6 The term “asset” is used in multiple frameworks and documents. For the purposes of this publication, assets are defined as technologies that 
may comprise an information system. Examples include laptop computers, desktop computers, servers, sensors, data, mobile phones, tablets, 
routers, and switches. In instances where the authors mean “assets” as they appear on a balance sheet, the word will be proceeded by other words, 
such as “high-level”, “balance sheet”, or “Level 1” to differentiate context. 
7 A BIA register records business impact information about relevant assets; the register is related to but separate from a risk register, which is a 
repository of risk information including the data understood about risks over time. 
8 Operational risk is discussed more fully in NISTIR 8286C, Section 3.1.

--- Página 16 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
9 
The BIA activities described in Figure 1 Steps A and C provide an opportunity to record 
information about enterprise assets, their value, and their relationship to enterprise risks. This 
asset management information supports recommendations from many risk management 
frameworks, including several from NIST, that encourage the use of an asset registry or 
repository to provide centralized knowledge management about the technology and data used to 
support the enterprise mission. For example, Cybersecurity Framework outcomes support an 
“asset inventory (ID.AM)” including hardware, software, external connections or services, and 
network segments. The Privacy Framework category “Inventory and Mapping” (ID.IM-P) 
includes inventory outcomes for systems, products, services, organizational roles, data actions 
and their purposes, data elements, and data processing components. Understanding the many 
types of assets in use by and for the enterprise helps to evaluate the potential consequences of a 
loss and supports effective risk response and monitoring. 
Once practitioners have determined the relative importance of various assets to the enterprise 
mission, they can evaluate the impact of a partial or full loss of confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability of those assets. As with other CSRM elements, this analysis (Step C) will be iterative 
in that impact analysis will support risk identification, and the understanding of potential risks 
informs impact determination (Step D). As system-level and organization-level CSRRs are 
aggregated and correlated (Step E), enterprise risk managers will use the composite set of 
information to determine the accuracy of previous risk analyses and assumptions. Specifically, 
risk management plans and results, as portrayed through the aggregated risk registers, provide 
details regarding residual risk, including the anticipated enterprise exposure. The integrated 
understanding of potential exposure – financial, missional, and reputational – is recorded in the 
Enterprise Risk Profile (ERP) and helps enterprise leadership make informed risk decisions. That 
enterprise-level understanding also provides leaders with valuable information to support the 
next iteration of the CSRM cycle through criteria for asset classification, past performances to 
inform quantifiable impact analysis, and a refined determination (Step B) of security 
requirements and risk appetite for various asset classes. 
This cycle enables an equilibrium that helps to balance the value of enterprise assets with an 
optimization of resources for operating and protecting those assets given what is known about 
the risks to them. Knowledge of asset value is gained throughout the life cycle through 
aggregated risk information, improving leaders’ understanding of the potential impact of losses 
to key assets. The value that is recorded in the BIA may extend well beyond replacement costs (a 
traditional measure of cost). For example, while one can calculate the direct cost of research and 
development underlying a new product offering, the long-term losses of the potential theft of that 
intellectual property could have more far-reaching impacts, including future revenue, share 
prices, enterprise reputation, and competitive advantage. 
It is important to remember that although Figure 1 and Figure 2 show a high-level and serial 
process for managing risk, actual CSRM/ERM integration is very dynamic and is rarely this 
simple. Risk conditions change frequently and drastically, so risk managers throughout the 
enterprise must stay in close communication and be prepared for out-of-cycle adjustments. 
 
Determining Asset Value to Support CSRM Activities 
Consistent asset valuation and impact analyses are important elements of enterprise risk strategy. 
Enterprise leaders and their supporting managers review the enterprise mission objectives and

--- Página 17 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
10 
expected outcomes to develop the risk management strategy for the enterprise. These strategic 
considerations then provide input to consider and calculate the harm that would occur if those 
benefits were reduced or eliminated. The BIA process provides that consistent model for 
determining and documenting the intended value of an asset and the potential harm of a loss to 
that asset. The BIA enables the consideration of numerous types of assets that enable the 
mission, many of which are related to the correct functioning of operational technology and 
cyber-physical systems. It is important to continually evaluate the role of various types of ICT 
while considering the harmful effects of an incident that might degrade or disrupt enterprise 
capabilities or that might have deleterious effects on the enterprise’s reputation or finances. For 
example, traditional information technology is almost always important, but it can be equally 
important to ensure that a manufacturing system operates properly or that chemicals flow safely 
throughout an industrial plant. Elements that enable both data and control signals should be 
included in the BIA. 
By recording the benefits provided by an asset in light of its contribution to the enterprise, the 
potential impacts of a loss to those assets can be determined (see Figure 3), particularly in terms 
of: 
• Mission – Including direct or indirect contributions to corporate or agency products and 
services that support enterprise objectives 
• Finance – Benefits that will improve the enterprise’s earnings (e.g., net revenue or return 
on investment for a government entity) or that will support fiscal capital and free cash 
flow for a business 
• Reputation – Attributes that enable stakeholders (e.g., citizens, shareholders, regulators, 
partners) to view the enterprise in a favorable light and contribute to its well-being 
 
Fig. 3. Impacts of Enterprise Assets for a Business or Agency 
By documenting the harmful impacts of enterprise asset loss, the BIA provides important input 
into the information security risk assessment process.9 
 
Determining Loss Scenarios and Their Consequences 
Historically, the BIA provides a consistent method for considering the impacts of disruptions 
(i.e., partial or full loss of availability) on the delivery of products and services. While disruption 
is an important impact to consider, the factors described above highlight the need to also 
consider high-level impacts from confidentiality and integrity loss. This high-level set of loss 
 
9 Note that the domains and impacts described are illustrative. Enterprise stakeholders should define the appropriate impact domains.

--- Página 18 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
11 
scenarios is related to but separate from the detailed risk scenarios that occur as part of the 
cybersecurity risk management (CSRM) process. 
In preparation for the BIA, the system owner will determine sources of loss to the asset being 
discussed.10 Threat modeling processes, such as the OCTAVE Allegro method, may help to 
develop scenarios about the impacts of critical or sensitive data being disclosed, modified, 
interrupted, or destroyed [OCTAVE]. These loss scenarios consider the enterprise risk strategy, 
leadership’s risk appetite and tolerance, and the mission, finance, and reputation factors 
described in Section 2.3. 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Technical Specification (TS) 22317:2021, 
Security and resilience – Business continuity management systems – Guidelines for business 
impact analysis, states, 
…to support consistency, many enterprises define a scale to aid in the classification 
or categorization of assets, as determined through the BIA process [ISO22317]. For 
example, FIPS Publication 199 defines three levels (low, moderate, and high) of 
potential impact on organizations or individuals should there be a breach of security 
(i.e., a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability). These levels are determined 
based upon an assessment of whether a loss could be expected to have a limited, 
serious, or severe adverse effect. [FIPS199] 
Loss scenarios should reflect partial as well as complete losses. It is important to analyze 
“graceful degradation” scenarios and conditions under which assets continue to function but do 
so in a diminished or limited capacity. As described above, these “partial” impacts include 
confidentiality and integrity issues as well as availability. The BIA also offers the opportunity to 
evaluate the potential impact of the timing of a loss event (e.g., threat event frequency, latency, 
and duration), which can significantly influence the harm that may result. 
Ultimately, these loss scenarios will provide input into the CSRM process, including risk 
scenario identification. NIST IR 8286A describes the need for risk identification as part of a 
broader risk assessment, including for information security risk. It frames risk identification in 
terms of four necessary inputs (parts A through D, as shown in Figure 4) that should be recorded 
in the risk description cell of a CSRR. Combining these elements into a risk scenario helps to 
provide the full context of a potential loss event. The use of this scenario-based approach helps 
ensure comprehensive risk identification by considering many types of physical and logical 
events that might occur. 
 
Fig. 4. Elements of Information Risk Identification (from NIST IR 8286A) 
 
10 For federal systems, the system owner may be a program manager or business/asset owner and may represent the official responsible for the 
procurement, development, integration, modification, operation, maintenance, and disposal of a system. Non-federal entities may consider this 
role to be a business manager with oversight over development, production, or operation.

--- Página 19 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
12 
The completion of the risk description column is composed of four activities that are detailed in 
NIST IR 8286A, Subsections 2.2.1 through 2.2.4. The activities include: 
• Part A – Identification of the organization’s relevant assets and their valuation 
• Part B – Determination of potential intentional/unintentional threats that might jeopardize 
the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of those assets 
• Part C – Consideration of vulnerabilities or other predisposing conditions of assets that 
make a threat event possible 
• Part D – High-level evaluation of the potential consequences if the threat source (part B) 
exploits the weakness (part C) against the organizational asset (part A) 
Information learned while developing the loss scenarios helps to complete Part D of the risk 
scenario development, as depicted in Figure 4. By determining the various adverse impacts that 
might occur – whether by intentional attacks, natural events, or inadvertent errors – the enterprise 
will be able to support effective assessment, response, communications, and monitoring of 
information security risks. Notably, the goal is not to determine the probability that such a risk 
could occur since that exercise is part of risk analysis. Rather, the analysis of business impact is 
to determine what the various effects might be in order to enable risk managers to decide how 
critical and sensitive a particular business system is. Similar considerations apply to cyber-
physical systems and operational technologies.  
The risk management process relies on this foundation of asset categorization, enabling a tailored 
and cost-effective approach to balancing risk and reward. Business impact drives categorization 
(sometimes called asset classification), which drives risk identification, which will later inform 
risk response, risk monitoring, and communication. 
Risk managers use their understanding of potential impacts to create the risk identification 
scenarios that are recorded in the risk description column of the CSRR and to the record impact 
values in the CSRR impact column. This information is recorded in the risk detail record11 
(RDR), including the primary adverse impact, secondary adverse impact, and other relevant 
fields within that template. 
Since business impacts are directly based on the effects that uncertainty may have on key 
enterprise functions, the analyst must gain the guidance of senior leadership regarding the 
determination of assets that are critical or sensitive. The relative importance of each enterprise 
asset (and its interdependencies and interconnections) will be a necessary input for considering 
the impact portion of the risk description (Part D in Figure 4) in the CSRR. Through these 
processes, a BIA supports communication and the prioritization of an enterprise approach to 
protecting and monitoring critical and sensitive assets (e.g., high-value assets, or HVAs) in light 
of the enterprise’s mission. 
 
Business Impact Analysis in Terms of Criticality and Sensitivity 
Based on the information stored, transmitted, or processed by the asset being analyzed, risk 
managers can determine the criticality and sensitivity of the system. The level of criticality can 
 
11 A notional Risk Detail Record, a companion to the notional cybersecurity risk register, provides a method that is described in NIST IR 8286A. 
An RDR may help monitor and communicate detailed information about each known risk, relevant stakeholders, date and schedule 
considerations, and planned activities.

--- Página 20 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
13 
be calculated by examining the detailed harms that would result from the loss of availability of 
that asset. Criticality should consider IT systems and asset interdependencies. Similarly, the level 
of sensitivity can be calculated by examining the detailed harms that would result from the loss 
of integrity or confidentiality of that asset. The factors that determine severity are directly tied to 
the enterprise strategy (including the risk management strategy). 
As with all risk management activities, the impact analysis processes are iterative. Value 
determination will depend on the impact of a loss of the asset, which will be determined by the 
threat and vulnerability scenarios. Actual risk analysis of a scenario can be performed using 
many methodologies, including root cause analysis, event trees, fault trees, bowtie diagrams, and 
failure mode effects analysis (FMEA) or failure modes, effects, and criticality analysis 
(FMECA). NIST IR 8286A details methods for determining the likelihood of a scenario using 
these and other methods, as well as for using simulation (e.g., the Monte-Carlo technique) to 
calculate probability. A key benefit of using such methodologies is the ability to better quantify 
the criticality and sensitivity of an enterprise asset rather than using vague qualifiers. 
The BIA does not directly address the identified risks, but the BIA-determined criticality and 
sensitivity of a system will influence risk management requirements and thereby drive CSRM 
prioritization and risk remediation. For example, if the risk analysis indicates that failure is 
probable for aging or obsolescent critical infrastructure, upgrades to or replacements of that 
infrastructure may become a priority. 
 
Using a BIA to Record Interdependencies 
A valuable benefit of a BIA is that it provides an opportunity to record interdependencies and 
their influence on enterprise benefits and risks. For example, a network router will have 
significant enterprise importance if it enables a vital sales website. One of the most common uses 
of a BIA is to record critical systems and identify the underlying infrastructure on which those 
systems depend. 
The BIA, however, enables a much broader understanding than just managing availability. In the 
cybersecurity realm, use of the BIA has historically been limited to calculations of quality-based 
and time-based objectives for incident handling (including continuity of operations and disaster 
recovery). Because the BIA serves as a nexus for understanding risk (which is simply the 
measurement of uncertainty on the “system” impacted), it can be used to: 
• Determine appropriate risk appetite and tolerance values as part of an enterprise risk 
strategy;12 
• Develop performance and risk metrics that can be used to communicate and monitor 
CSRM activities, including those measures that have been determined to be key 
performance indicators (KPIs) and key risk indicators (KRIs); 
• Aid in the classification or categorization of systems (and components of systems); 
• Enable the escalation of risk notification, response, and related decisions; 
 
12 OMB Circular A-123 defines risk appetite as “the broad-based amount of risk an organization is willing to accept in pursuit of its 
mission/vision. It is established by the organization’s most senior level leadership and serves as the guidepost to set strategy and select 
objectives.” The same document defines risk tolerance as “the acceptable level of variance in performance relative to the achievement of 
objectives.”

--- Página 21 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
14 
• Support risk management requirements for the systems considered within the BIA; and 
• Enable effective monitoring based on the criticality and sensitivity of the systems 
recorded. 
Expanding the use of the BIA to include confidentiality and integrity considerations helps to 
support a comprehensive risk analysis and, thus, improves CSRM effectiveness. The basis of 
asset valuation on enterprise impact helps to better align risk decisions with the enterprise risk 
strategy. As illustrated in Figure 1, CSRM/ERM integration helps to complete the cycle by 
informing future iterations of impact analysis based on previous information gained through 
CSRR aggregation. As organizational and enterprise leaders gain an understanding of the 
aggregate risk exposure and potential composite impact, they can use that information to adjust 
risk expectations (and possibly adjust business impact guidance to ensure an ongoing balance 
between asset value, resource optimization, and risk considerations).  
 
Consistent Business Impact Analysis Through an Enterprise Approach 
The use of a consistent BIA template throughout the enterprise helps ensure that assets are 
similarly categorized throughout the business. Because valuation can be subjective, a 
documented methodology supports prioritization and risk management by participants. 
The use of a common methodology also supports enterprise communication and collaboration to 
better understand what constitutes sensitivity and criticality in each enterprise’s unique context. 
An example of such a methodology is described in the Criticality Analysis Process Model, 
[NISTIR8179]. This model includes top-down and bottom-up analyses that connect different 
levels of the enterprise to support consistent and comprehensive assessments. NIST IR 8179 uses 
the term “baseline criticality”, which Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Federal 
Information Systems and Organizations, NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-161, defines as,  
The identification of a system and its components, whether physical or 
logical, that are considered critical to an organization’s mission. The 
reduced functional capability, incapacity, or destruction of such systems 
and components would have a significant adverse impact on an 
organization’s operations (including mission, functions, image, or 
reputation), assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. 
Similarly, ISO/TS 22317:2021 describes methods for documenting and monitoring business 
system value, although it focuses primarily on availability considerations. 
Notably, the business impact is based on understanding the impact of losses on a critical or 
sensitive “system”. As described in Section 1, losses can range from a minor inconvenience to a 
partial disruption to a catastrophic disaster, so it is helpful to use risk analysis techniques to 
simulate and record these ranges. In many cases, an enterprise will continue to use networked 
systems even during a compromise. Impact and loss should not be seen as binary states but rather 
as factors to use as inputs to the risk register and outputs to risk monitoring. 
The term “system” could indicate one of many things comprised of some combination of 
physical infrastructure, including hardware, software, firmware, communications/data flow, and 
external equipment or services. Notably, many enterprise assets are “systems of systems”.

--- Página 22 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
15 
Because these particular systems are complex and interconnected, they are noteworthy from a 
risk perspective. 
 
Using a BIA to Support an Enterprise Registry of System Assets 
The BIA also enables a centralized registry of important asset management information. This 
asset register enables review, monitoring, and communications about the characteristics of the 
asset (e.g., system, service, facility, interdependencies). This registry also provides a method for 
recording the various roles and stakeholders that support the asset. It is important to record the 
parties involved with decision-making in order to ensure comprehensive input and assist with 
subsequent updates. Roles may include senior leaders, executive sponsors, business managers, 
security/privacy officers, developers, and operational staff. 
The asset register also enables the documentation of contact information for those in various 
roles – information that can be helpful during risk assessment and incident handling. Example 
contact information might include: 
• Sponsor or business owner responsible for the asset 
• System owner 
• System operator or administrator 
• Security contacts 
• Privacy contacts 
• Characteristics of the physical devices (or services) 
Since asset management is an important element of cybersecurity risk management, this 
information is quite valuable for protecting the asset, detecting cyber events, responding quickly 
to potential issues, and recovering services when necessary. 
Cybersecurity incident responders often need readily available information regarding affected 
enterprise systems. The enterprise registry of business systems is a vital source of information 
about the systems and services that might be impacted by a cybersecurity event, the sensitivity 
and criticality of those assets, and important information about how to contact relevant 
stakeholders. As system owners and risk practitioners gain knowledge throughout the 
CSRM/ERM integration cycle, the information in the asset registry must be updated to improve 
risk identification, accurate exposure consideration (based on realistic calculations of harmful 
impacts), and effective risk response. Proper maintenance also enables comparison of the asset 
register information to the CSRR and the enterprise risk register (ERR).

--- Página 23 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
16 
 Conclusion 
While business impact analysis has historically been used to determine availability requirements 
for business continuity, the process can be extended to provide a broad understanding of the 
potential impacts of any type of loss on the enterprise mission. The management of enterprise 
risk requires a comprehensive understanding of the mission-essential functions (i.e., what must 
go right) and the potential risk scenarios that jeopardize those functions (i.e., what might go 
wrong). 
Enterprise leaders need a methodology to determine which assets enable the achievement of 
mission objectives and to evaluate the factors that render assets as critical and sensitive. Based 
on those factors, enterprise leaders provide risk directives (i.e., risk appetite and tolerance) as 
input to the BIA. System owners then apply the BIA to developing asset categorization, impact 
values, and requirements for the protection of critical or sensitive assets. The output of the BIA is 
the foundation for ERM/CSRM process, as described in the NIST IR 8286 series, and enables 
consistent prioritization, response, and communication regarding information security risk. 
Public- and private-sector enterprises must maintain a continual understanding of potential 
business impacts, the risk conditions that might lead to those impacts, and the steps being taken 
to address those impacts (as recorded in various risk registers and, ultimately, in the ERP). In 
many cases when a company or agency is asked about risks, they are actually being asked to 
describe potential impacts. An example of this is reflected in the annual reports of publicly 
traded enterprises, where the first section describes the mission and business and the next section 
describes potential events that might have a material adverse effect on the enterprise’s financial 
position, its ability to operate, or its corporate cash flow (i.e., risk factors). Public-sector agencies 
and their administrative or legislative overseers create similar reports. Adverse impacts can 
impair agency funding and missions, so the BIA is equally important for public service 
enterprises.  
Use of the BIA methodology to categorize the criticality and sensitivity of enterprise assets 
enables effective risk management and the subsequent integration of reporting and monitoring at 
the enterprise level to ensure that risk and resource utilization are optimized in light of the value 
of those assets.

--- Página 24 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
17 
References 
The following external publications were referenced in this report. 
[NISTIR8286] 
Stine K, Quinn S, Witte G, Gardner RK (2020) Integrating Cybersecurity and 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). (National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency or Internal Report (IR) 
8286. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286  
[OCTAVE] 
Software Engineering Institute (2007) Introducing OCTAVE Allegro: 
Improving the Information Security Risk Assessment Process. (Software 
Engineering Institute, Pittsburgh, PA), Technical Report CMU/SEI-2007-TR-
012. Available at 
https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalReport/2007_005_001_148
85.pdf  
[ISO22317] 
International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical 
Commission (2021) ISO/TS 22317:2021. Security and resilience — Business 
continuity management systems — Guidelines for business impact analysis 
(ISO, Geneva, Switzerland). Available at 
https://www.iso.org/standard/79000.html  
[SP800-161R1] 
Boyens J, Smith A, Bartol N, Winkler K, Holbrook A, Fallon M (2022) 
Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and 
Organizations. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, 
MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-161r1. 
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-161r1  
[FIPS199] 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (2004) Standards for Security 
Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems. (U.S. 
Department of Commerce, Washington, DC), Federal Information Processing 
Standards Publication (FIPS) 199. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.199  
[NISTIR8179] 
Paulsen C, Boyens JM, Bartol N, Winkler K (2018) Criticality Analysis 
Process Model: Prioritizing Systems and Components. (National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency or Internal 
Report (IR) 8179. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8179

--- Página 25 ---
NIST IR 8286D 
 
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform 
November 2022 
 
Risk Prioritization and Response 
18 
Appendix A. List of Symbols, Abbreviations, and Acronyms 
Selected acronyms and abbreviations used in this paper are defined below. 
ALE 
Annualized Loss Expectancy 
BIA 
Business Impact Analysis 
CSRM 
Cybersecurity Risk Management 
CSRR 
Cybersecurity Risk Register 
DDIL 
Denied, Disrupted, Intermittent, and Limited Impact 
ERM 
Enterprise Risk Management 
ERP 
Enterprise Risk Profile 
FMEA 
Failure Mode Effects Analysis 
FMECA 
Failure Modes, Effects, and Criticality Analysis 
FOIA 
Freedom of Information Act 
ICT 
Information and Communications Technology 
IT 
Information Technology 
ITL 
Information Technology Laboratory 
IRP 
Incident Response Plan 
KPI 
Key Performance Indicators 
NPS 
NIST Publication System 
POC 
Points of Contact 
RDR 
Risk Detail Record 
SSP 
System Security Plan

