=== Windows 11 Security Book (2).pdf ===

--- Página 1 ---
1
Windows 11 
Security Book: 
Powerful security 
from chip to cloud
Built with zero-trust principles at the core 
to safeguard data and access anywhere, 
keeping you protected and productive.

--- Página 2 ---
2
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Table of contents
Introduction
3
Hardware Security
8
16
Operating System Security
37
Application Security
58
Cloud Services
73
Conclusion
44
Identity
68
Security Foundation
54
Privacy

--- Página 3 ---
3
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Introduction
The acceleration of digital transformation and the expansion of both remote and hybrid 
workplaces brings new opportunities to organizations, communities, and individuals. Our 
work styles have transformed. And now more than ever, employees need simple, intuitive 
user experiences to collaborate and stay productive, wherever work happens. But the 
expansion of access and ability to work anywhere has also introduced new threats and risks. 
According to data from the Microsoft commissioned Security Signals report, 75% of security 
decision-makers at the vice-president level and above feel the move to hybrid work leaves 
their organization more vulnerable to security threats. And Microsoft’s 2022 Work Trend 
Index shows “cybersecurity issues and risks” are top concerns for business decisions makers, 
who worry about issues like malware, stolen credentials, devices that lack security updates, 
and physical attacks on lost or stolen devices.
At Microsoft, we work hard to help organizations adapt to hybrid work while protecting against 
modern threats. We’re committed to helping customers get secure—and stay secure. With over 
$20 billion invested in security over five years, more than 8,500 dedicated security professionals, 
and some 1.3 billion Windows 10 devices used around the world, we have deep insight into the 
threats our customers face and the steps they need to take to address them.
Organizations worldwide are adopting a zero-trust security model based on the premise 
that no person or device anywhere can have access until safety and integrity is proven. We 
know that our customers need modern security solutions, so we built Windows 11 on zero-
trust principles for the new era of hybrid work. Windows 11 raises the security baselines with 
new requirements for advanced hardware and software protection that extends from chip to 
cloud. With Windows 11, our customers can enable hybrid productivity and new experiences 
anywhere without compromising security.

--- Página 4 ---
4
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Approximately 80% of security 
decision makers say that software 
alone is not enough protection 
from emerging threats.1 
In Windows 11, hardware and software work together to protect sensitive data from the 
core of your PC all the way to the cloud. The comprehensive protection helps keep your 
organization secure, no matter where people work. See the layers of protection in this simple 
diagram and get a brief overview of our security priorities below.

--- Página 5 ---
5
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
How Windows 11 enables 
zero-trust protection
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
A zero-trust security model gives the right people the right access at the right time. Zero-
trust security is based on three principles: 
1.	 Reduce risk by explicitly verifying data points such as user identity, location, and device 
health for every access request, without exception. 
2.	 When verified, give people and devices access to only necessary resources for the 
necessary amount of time. 
3.	 Use continuous analytics to drive threat detection and improve defenses. 
You should continue to strengthen your zero-trust posture as well. To improve threat 
detection and defenses, verify end-to-end encryption and use analytics to gain visibility. 
For Windows 11, the zero-trust principle of “verify explicitly” applies to risks introduced 
by both devices and people. Windows 11 provides chip-to-cloud security, enabling IT 
administrators to implement strong authorization and authentication processes with 
tools such as our premier solution Windows Hello for Business. IT administrators also 
gain attestation and measurements for determining if a device meets requirements and 
can be trusted. In addition, Windows 11 works out-of-the-box with Microsoft Endpoint 
Manager and Azure Active Directory, so access decisions and enforcement are seamless. 
Plus, IT administrators can easily customize Windows 11 to meet specific user and policy 
requirements for access, privacy, compliance, and more.
Individual users also benefit from powerful safeguards including new standards for hardware-
based security and passwordless protection that help safeguard data and privacy. 
Verify explicitly
Use least 
privileged access
Assume breach

--- Página 6 ---
6
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Overview of Windows 11 
security priorities
Security, by default 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Nearly 90% of security decision makers surveyed say outdated hardware leaves organizations 
more open to attacks and using modern hardware would help protect against future threats.¹ 
Building on the innovations of Windows 10, we’ve worked with our manufacturer and 
silicon partners to provide additional hardware security capabilities to meet the evolving 
threat landscape and enable hybrid work and learning. The new set of hardware security 
requirements that comes with Windows 11 supports new ways of working with a foundation 
that is even stronger and more resilient to attacks.
Enhanced hardware and operating system security 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
With hardware-based isolation security that begins at the chip, Windows 11 stores sensitive 
data behind additional barriers separated from the operating system. As a result, information 
including encryption keys and user credentials are protected from unauthorized access and 
tampering. 
In Windows 11, hardware and software work together to protect the operating system. For 
example, new devices come with virtualization-based security (VBS) and Secure Boot built-in 
and enabled by default to contain and limit malware exploits.2
Robust application security and privacy controls
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
To help keep personal and business information protected and private, Windows 11 has 
multiple layers of application security that safeguard critical data and code integrity. 
Application isolation and controls, code integrity, privacy controls, and least-privilege 
principles enable developers to build in security and privacy from the ground up. This 
integrated security protects against breaches and malware, helps keep data private, and gives 
IT administrators the controls they need.
In Windows 11, Microsoft Defender Application Guard3 uses Hyper-V virtualization 
technology to isolate untrusted websites and Microsoft Office files in containers, separate

--- Página 7 ---
7
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
from and unable to access the host operating system and enterprise data. To protect privacy, 
Windows 11 also provides more controls over which apps and features can collect and use 
data such as the device’s location, or access resources like camera and microphone.
Secured identities
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Passwords have been an important part of digital security for a long time, and they’re also a 
top target for cybercriminals. Windows 11 provides powerful protection against credential 
theft with chip-level hardware security. Credentials are protected by layers of hardware and 
software security such as TPM 2.0, VBS, and/or Windows Defender Credential Guard, making 
it harder for attackers to steal credentials from a device. And with Windows Hello, users can 
quickly sign in with face, fingerprint, or PIN for passwordless protection.4 
Connecting to cloud services 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Microsoft offers comprehensive cloud services for identity, storage, and access management 
in addition to the tools needed to attest that Windows 11 devices connecting to your 
network are trustworthy. You can also enforce compliance and conditional access with a 
modern device management (MDM) service such as Microsoft Endpoint Manager, which 
works with Azure Active Directory and Microsoft Azure Attestation to control access to 
applications and data through the cloud.5

--- Página 8 ---
8
Hardware
Security

--- Página 9 ---
9
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Today’s ever-evolving threats require strong alignment between hardware and software 
technologies to keep users, data, and devices protected. The operating system alone cannot 
protect from the wide range of tools and techniques cybercriminals use to compromise a 
computer. Once they gain a foothold, intruders can be difficult to detect while engaging 
in multiple nefarious activities that range from stealing important data and credentials to 
implanting malware into low-level device firmware. Once malware is installed in firmware, it 
becomes difficult to identify and remove. These new threats call for computing hardware that 
is secure down to the very core, including hardware chips and processors which store sensitive 
business information. With hardware-based protection, we can enable strong mitigation 
against entire classes of vulnerabilities that are difficult to thwart with software alone. 
Hardware-based protection can also increase the system’s overall security without measurably 
slowing performance, compared to implementing the same capability in software. 
With Windows 11, Microsoft has raised the hardware security bar to design the most 
secure version of Windows ever from chip to cloud. We have carefully chosen the hardware 
requirements and default security features based on threat intelligence, global regulatory 
requirements, and our own Microsoft Security team. We have worked with our chip and 
device manufacturing partners to integrate advanced security capabilities across software, 
firmware, and hardware. 
Through a powerful combination of hardware root-of-trust and silicon-assisted security, 
Windows 11 delivers built-in hardware protection out of the box.

--- Página 10 ---
10
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Hardware root-of-trust
Note: This section applies to all Windows 11 editions, including Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education.
A hardware root-of-trust helps protect and maintain the integrity of the system as the device 
powers on, loads firmware, and then launches the operating system. Hardware root-of-trust 
meets multiple important security goals for the system. For example, the Secure Boot process 
provides a secure start up environment that only allows devices to boot with software trusted 
by the OEM. When the PC starts, the firmware checks the signature of each piece of boot 
software, including UEFI firmware drivers (also known as Option ROMs), EFI applications, and 
the operating system. If the signatures are valid, the PC boots, and the firmware gives control 
to the operating system. Rollback protection also prevents the system from rolling back to 
older versions of firmware. 
In addition, hardware root-of-trust provides a highly secure area isolated from the operating 
system and applications for storing cryptographic keys, data, and code. This protection 
helps mitigate attacks against the Windows authentication stack, single sign-on tokens, the 
Windows Hello biometric stack, and BitLocker volume encryption keys.
Trusted Platform Module (TPM)
Trusted Platform Module (TPM) technology is designed to provide hardware-based, security-
related functions. TPMs provide security and privacy benefits for system hardware, platform 
owners, and users. Windows Hello, BitLocker, Windows Defender System Guard, and other 
Windows features rely on the TPM for capabilities such as key generation, secure storage, 
encryption, boot integrity measurements, and attestation. These capabilities in turn help 
customers strengthen protection of their identities and data.
The 2.0 version of the specification includes support for newer algorithms, which can improve 
driver signing and key generation performance. Starting with Windows 10, Microsoft’s 
hardware certification requires all new Windows PCs to include TPM 2.0 built in and enabled 
by default. With Windows 11, both new and upgraded devices must have TPM 2.0. The 
requirement strengthens the security posture across all Windows 11 devices and helps ensure 
that these devices can benefit from future security capabilities that depend on a hardware 
root-of-trust.
Learn more about the Windows 11 TPM specifications and enabling TPM 2.0 on your PC.
Microsoft Pluton
The Microsoft Pluton security processor is designed by Microsoft in partnership with silicon 
partners. Pluton enhances the protection of Windows 11 devices, including Secured-core 
PCs, with a hardware root-of-trust that provides additional protection for cryptographic 
keys and other secrets. Pluton is designed to reduce the attack surface as it integrates

--- Página 11 ---
11
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
the security chip directly into the processor. It can be used with a discreet TPM 2.0 or as a 
standalone security processor.
When root of trust is located on a separate, discrete chip on the motherboard, the 
communication path between the root-of-trust and the CPU can be vulnerable to physical 
attack. Embedding Pluton into the CPU makes it harder to target the communication path 
for exploitation. 
Pluton supports the TPM 2.0 industry standard allowing customers to immediately benefit 
from the enhanced security in Windows features that rely on TPMs including BitLocker, 
Windows Hello, and Windows Defender System Guard. In addition to providing root-of-
trust, Pluton also supports other security functionality beyond what is possible with the TPM 
2.0 specification, and this extensibility allows for additional Pluton firmware and OS features 
to be delivered over time via Windows Update. The first example of such a scenario was 
developed in close partnership with multiple OEMs. Windows will use Pluton to securely 
integrate with other hardware security components on the system to provide greater visibility 
into the state of the platform to the Windows end user and eventually to IT administrators, 
who will have new platform resiliency signals that can be used for zero-trust conditional 
access workflows.
As with other TPMs, credentials, encryption keys, and other sensitive information cannot 
be easily extracted from Pluton even if an attacker has installed malware or has complete 
physical possession of the PC. Storing sensitive data like encryption keys securely within 
the Pluton processor, which is isolated from the rest of the system, helps ensure that 
attackers cannot access sensitive data—even if attackers use emerging techniques like 
speculative execution.
Pluton also solves the major security challenge of keeping its own root-of-trust firmware up 
to date across the entire PC ecosystem. Today customers receive updates to their security 
firmware from a variety of different sources, which may make it difficult for customers to get 
alerts about security updates resulting in systems remaining in a vulnerable state. Pluton 
provides a flexible, updateable platform for its firmware that implements end-to-end security 
functionality authored, maintained, and updated by Microsoft. Pluton is integrated with the 
Windows Update service, benefiting from over a decade of operational experience reliably 
delivering updates across over a billion endpoint systems. 
Microsoft Pluton is available with select new Windows PCs.
Learn more: Meet the Microsoft Pluton processor – The security chip designed for the future 
of Windows PCs | Microsoft Security Blog

--- Página 12 ---
12
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Silicon assisted security
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
In addition to a modern hardware root-of-trust, there are numerous other capabilities in 
the latest chips that harden the operating system against threats such as by protecting the 
boot process, safeguarding the integrity of memory, isolating security sensitive compute 
logic, and more.
Secured kernel
Virtualization-based security (VBS), also known as core isolation, is a critical building 
block in a secure system. VBS uses hardware virtualization features to host a secure kernel 
separated from the operating system. This means that even if the operating system is 
compromised, the secure kernel is still protected.
The isolated VBS environment protects processes, such as security solutions and credential 
managers, from other processes running in memory. Even if malware gains access to the 
main OS kernel, the hypervisor and virtualization hardware help prevent the malware from 
executing unauthorized code or accessing platform secrets in the VBS environment. VBS 
implements virtual trust level 1 (VTL1), which has higher privilege than the virtual trust level 0 
(VTL0) implemented in the main kernel. 
Since more privileged VTLs can enforce their own memory protections, higher VTLs can 
effectively protect areas of memory from lower VTLs. In practice, this allows a lower VTL 
to protect isolated memory regions by securing them with a higher VTL. For example, 
VTL0 could store a secret in VTL1, at which point only VTL1 could access it. Even if VTL0 is 
compromised, the secret would be safe.
Hypervisor-protected code integrity (HVCI), also called memory integrity, uses VBS to run 
Kernel Mode Code Integrity (KMCI) inside the secure VBS environment instead of the main 
Windows kernel. This helps prevent attacks that attempt to modify kernel mode code such 
as drivers. The KMCI role is to check that all kernel code is properly signed and hasn’t been 
tampered with before it is allowed to run. 
HVCI ensures that only validated code can be executed in kernel-mode. The hypervisor 
leverages processor virtualization extensions to enforce memory protections that prevent 
kernel-mode software from executing code that has not been first validated by the code 
integrity subsystem. HVCI protects against common attacks like WannaCry that rely on the 
ability to inject malicious code into the kernel. HVCI can prevent injection of malicious kernel-
mode code even when drivers and other kernel-mode software have bugs.
All Windows 11 devices will support HVCI and most new devices will come with VBS and 
HVCI protection turned on by default.

--- Página 13 ---
13
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Hardware-enforced stack protection 
Hardware-enforced stack protection integrates software and hardware for a modern defense 
against cyberthreats such as memory corruption and zero-day exploits. Based on Control-
flow Enforcement Technology (CET) from Intel and AMD Shadow Stacks, hardware-enforced 
stack protection is designed to protect against exploit techniques that try to hijack return 
addresses on the stack.
Application code includes a program processing stack that hackers seek to corrupt or 
disrupt in a type of attack called stack smashing. When defenses like executable space 
protection began thwarting such attacks, hackers turned to new methods like return oriented 
programming. Return oriented programming, a form of advanced stack smashing, can be 
used to bypass defenses, hijack the data stack, and ultimately force a device to perform 
harmful operations. 
To guard against these control-flow hijacking attacks, the Windows kernel creates a separate 
“shadow stack” for return addresses. Windows 11 extends stack protection capabilities to 
provide both user mode and kernel mode support. 
Windows 11 Secured-core PCs
The March 2021 Security Signals report shows that more than 80% of enterprises have 
experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years. For customers in data 
sensitive industries like financial services, government, and healthcare, Microsoft has worked 
with OEM partners to offer a special category of devices called Secured-core PCs. The devices 
ship with additional security measures enabled at the firmware layer, or device core, that 
underpins Windows.
Secured-core PCs help prevent malware attacks and minimize firmware vulnerabilities by 
launching into a clean and trusted state at startup with a hardware-enforced root of trust. 
Virtualization-based security comes enabled by default. And with built-in hypervisor-
protected code integrity (HVCI) shielding system memory, Secured-core PCs ensure that all 
executables are signed by known and approved authorities only.
Secured-core PC protection against physical attacks 
Secured-core PCs also protect against physical threats such as drive-by Direct Memory 
Access (DMA) attacks. PCIe hot plug devices such as Thunderbolt, USB4, and CFexpress 
allow users to attach new classes of external peripherals, including graphics cards or other 
PCI devices, to their PCs with the plug-and-play ease of USB. Because PCI hot plug ports 
are external and easily accessible, PCs are susceptible to drive-by DMA attacks. Memory 
access protection (also known as Kernel DMA Protection) protects against these attacks by 
preventing external peripherals from gaining unauthorized access to memory.

--- Página 14 ---
14
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Drive-by DMA attacks typically happen quickly while the system owner isn’t present. The 
attacks are performed using simple to moderate attacking tools created with affordable, off-
the-shelf hardware and software that do not require the disassembly of the PC. For example, 
a PC owner might leave a device for a quick coffee break. Meanwhile, an attacker plugs an 
external tool into a port to steal information or inject code that gives the attacker remote 
control over the PCs, including the ability to bypass the lock screen.
With memory access protection built in and enabled, Secured-core PCs protect against 
physical attack wherever people work.
Firmware protection in Secured-core PCs
Secured-core PCs provide multiple layers of robust protections against hardware and 
firmware attacks.
Sophisticated malware attacks may commonly attempt to install “bootkits” or “rootkits” on 
the system to evade detection and achieve persistence. This malicious software may run at 
the firmware level prior to Windows being loaded, or during the Windows boot process itself, 
enabling the system to start with the highest level of privilege. Because critical subsystems 
in Windows leverage virtualization-based security, protecting the hypervisor becomes 
increasingly important. To ensure that no unauthorized firmware or software can start before 
the Windows bootloader, Windows PCs rely on the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface 
(UEFI) Secure Boot standard, a baseline security feature of all Windows 11 PCs. Secure boot 
helps ensure that only authorized firmware and software with trusted digital signatures can 
execute. In addition, measurements of all boot components are securely stored in the TPM 
to help establish a non-repudiable audit log of the boot called the Static Root of Trust for 
Measurement (SRTM). 
Thousands of PC vendors produce numerous device models with diverse UEFI firmware 
components, which in turn creates an incredibly large number of SRTM signatures and 
measurements at bootup. Because these signatures and measurements are inherently 
trusted by secure boot, it can be challenging to constrain trust to only what is needed to 
boot on any specific device. Traditionally, block lists and allow lists have been the two main 
techniques used to constrain trust, and they continue to expand if devices rely only on SRTM 
measurements.
In Secured-core PCs, Windows Defender System Guard Secure Launch protects bootup with 
a technology known as the Dynamic Root of Trust for Measurement (DRTM). With DRTM, the 
system initially follows the normal UEFI Secure Boot process. However, before launching, the 
system enters a hardware-controlled trusted state that forces the CPU(s) down a hardware-
secured code path. If a malware rootkit/bootkit has bypassed UEFI Secure Boot and resides 
in memory, DRTM will prevent it from accessing secrets and critical code protected by the 
virtualization-based security environment. Firmware Attack Surface Reduction technology can 
be used instead of DRTM on supporting devices such as Microsoft Surface.

--- Página 15 ---
15
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
System Management Mode (SMM) isolation is an execution mode in x86-based processors 
that runs at a higher effective privilege than the hypervisor. SSM complements the 
protections provided by DRTM by helping to reduce the attack surface. Relying on 
capabilities provided by silicon providers like Intel and AMD, SMM isolation enforces policies 
that implement restrictions such as preventing SMM code from accessing OS memory. The 
SMM isolation policy is included as part of the DRTM measurements that can be sent to a 
verifier like Microsoft Azure Remote Attestation. 
UNIFIED EXTENSIBLE 
FIRMWARE INTERFACE
Secure Launch
Windows 11
Hypervisor
Virtualization Based 
Security Enforcement
Secure Kernel
Kernel
Trustlet #1
Trustlet #2
Trustlet #3
Apps
Windows 
Platform 
Services
Learn more about Dynamic Root of Trust Measurement and SMM isolation.

--- Página 16 ---
16
Operating 
System 
Security

--- Página 17 ---
17
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Windows 11 is the most secure Windows yet with extensive security measures in the 
operating system designed to help keep devices, identities, and information safe. These 
measures include built-in advanced encryption and data protection, robust network and 
system security, and intelligent safeguards against ever evolving viruses and threats.
System security 
Trusted Boot (Secure Boot + Measured Boot)
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Windows 11 requires all PCs to use Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI)’s Secure 
Boot feature. When a Windows 11 device starts, Secure Boot and Trusted Boot work together 
to prevent malware and corrupted components from loading. Secure Boot provides initial 
protection then Trusted Boot picks up the process. 
Secure Boot makes a safe and trusted path from the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface 
(UEFI) through the Windows kernel’s Trusted Boot sequence. Malware attacks on the 
Windows boot sequence are blocked by the signature-enforcement handshakes throughout 
the boot sequence between the UEFI, bootloader, kernel, and application environments.

--- Página 18 ---
18
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
To reduce the risk of firmware rootkits, the PC verifies that firmware is digitally signed as it 
begins the boot process. Then Secure Boot checks the OS bootloader’s digital signature as 
well as all code that runs prior to the operating system starting to ensure the signature and 
code are uncompromised and trusted by the Secure Boot policy.
Trusted Boot picks up the process that began with Secure Boot. The Windows bootloader 
verifies the digital signature of the Windows kernel before loading it. The Windows kernel, in 
turn, verifies every other component of the Windows startup process, including boot drivers, 
startup files, and your antimalware product’s early-launch antimalware (ELAM) driver. If any 
of these files have been tampered with, the bootloader detects the problem and refuses 
to load the corrupted component. Often, Windows can automatically repair the corrupted 
component, restoring the integrity of Windows and allowing the PC to start normally.
Tampering or malware attacks on the Windows boot sequence are blocked by the signature 
enforcement handshakes between the UEFI, bootloader, kernel, and application environments.
For more information about these features and how they help prevent root kits and boot kits 
from loading during the startup process, see Secure the Windows boot process.
Cryptography
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Cryptography is designed to protect user and system data. The cryptography stack in 
Windows extends from the chip to the cloud, enabling Windows, applications, and services to 
protect system and user secrets. For example, data can be encrypted so that only a specific 
reader with a unique key can read it. As a basis for data security, cryptography helps prevent 
anyone except the intended recipient from reading data, performs integrity checks to ensure 
data is free of tampering, and authenticates identity to ensure that communication is secure. 
 Windows 11 cryptography is certified to meet the Federal Information Processing Standard 
(FIPS) 140. FIPS 140 certification ensures that US government approved algorithms are 
correctly implemented. Learn more about FIPS 140 validation.
 Windows cryptographic modules provide low-level primitives such as:
•	Random number generators (RNG)
•	Support for AES 128/256 with XTS, ECB, CBC, CFB, CCM, GCM modes of operation; RSA 
and DSA 2048, 3072, and 4096 key sizes; ECDSA over curves P-256, P-384, P-521
•	Hashing (support for SHA1, SHA-256, SHA-384, and SHA-512)

--- Página 19 ---
19
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
•	Signing and verification (padding support for OAEP, PSS, PKCS1)
•	Key agreement and key derivation (support for ECDH over NIST-standard prime curves 
P-256, P-384, P-521 and HKDF)

Application developers can use these cryptographic modules to perform low-level 
cryptographic operations (BCrypt), key storage operations (NCrypt), protect static data 
(DPAPI), and securely share secrets (DPAPI-NG).
Developers can access the modules on Windows through the Crypto API (CAPI) and the 
Cryptography Next Generation API (CNG), which are both powered by Microsoft’s open-
source cryptographic library SymCrypt. SymCrypt supports complete transparency through its 
open-source code. In addition, SymCrypt offers performance optimization for cryptographic 
operations by taking advantage of assembly and hardware acceleration when available.
SymCrypt is part of Microsoft’s commitment to transparency, which includes the global 
Microsoft Government Security Program that aims to provide confidential security 
information and resources people need to trust Microsoft’s products and services. The 
program offers controlled access to source code and exchange threat and vulnerability 
information, opportunities to engage on technical content about Microsoft’s products and 
services, and access to five globally-distributed Transparency Centers.
Certificates
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
To help safeguard and authenticate information, Windows provides comprehensive support 
for certificates and certificate management. 
The built-in certificate management command-line utility (certmgr.exe) or MMC snap-in 
(certmgr.msc) can be used to view and manage certificates, certificate trust lists (CTLs), and 
certificate revocation lists (CRLs). Whenever a certificate is used in Windows, we validate 
that the leaf certificate and all the certificates in its chain of trust have not been revoked or 
compromised. The CTLs and CRLs on the machine are used as a reference for PKI trust and 
are updated weekly by the Microsoft Third Party Root program via Windows update. If a 
trusted certificate or root is revoked, all global devices will be updated immediately, meaning 
users can trust that Windows will automatically protect against vulnerabilities in public key 
infrastructure. 
For cloud and enterprise deployments, Windows also offers users the ability to auto-enroll 
and renew certificates in Active Directory with Group Policy to reduce the risk of potential 
outages due to certificate expiration or misconfiguration. Additionally, enterprise certificate 
pinning can be used to help reduce man-in-the-middle attacks by enabling users to protect 
their internal domain names from chaining to unwanted certificates. A web application’s

--- Página 20 ---
20
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
server authentication certificate chain is checked to ensure it matches a restricted set of 
certificates. Any web application triggering a name mismatch will start event logging and 
prevent user access from Microsoft Edge.
Code signing and integrity
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
To ensure that Windows files have not been tampered with, the Windows code integrity 
process verifies the signature of each file in Windows. Code signing is core to establishing 
the integrity of firmware, drivers, and software across the Windows platform. Code signing 
creates a digital signature by encrypting the hash of the file with the private key portion 
of a code signing certificate and embedding the signature into the file. The Windows code 
integrity process verifies the signed file by decrypting the signature to check the integrity of 
the file and confirm that it is from a reputable publisher, ensuring that the file hasn’t been 
tampered with.
The digital signature is evaluated across the Windows environment on Windows boot code, 
Windows kernel code, and Windows user mode applications. Secure Boot and Code Integrity 
verify the signature on bootloaders, Option ROMs, and other boot components, to ensure 
that it is trusted and from reputable publishers. For drivers not published by Microsoft, 
Kernel Code Integrity verifies the signature on kernel drivers and requires that drivers be 
signed by Windows or certified by the Windows Hardware Compatibility Program (WHCP). 
This program tests externally produced drivers for hardware and Windows compatibility, and 
ensures that they are malware free.
Device health attestation
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
The Windows device health attestation process supports a zero-trust paradigm that shifts the 
focus from static, network-based perimeters to users, assets, and resources.
The attestation process confirms the device, firmware, and boot process are in a good 
state and have not been tampered with before they can access corporate resources. These 
determinations are made with data stored in the TPM which provides a secure root of trust. The 
information is sent to an attestation service, such as Azure Attestation, to verify the device is in 
a trusted state. Then, an MDM tool like Microsoft Endpoint Manager reviews device health and 
connects this information with Azure Active Directory for conditional access.
Windows includes many security features to help protect users from malware and attacks. 
However, security components are trustworthy only if the platform boots as expected 
and is not tampered with. As noted above, Windows relies on Unified Extensible Firmware 
Interface (UEFI) Secure Boot, ELAM, DRTM, Trusted Boot, and other low-level hardware and 
firmware security features to protect your PC from attacks. From the moment you power on

--- Página 21 ---
21
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
your PC until your anti-malware starts, Windows is backed with the appropriate hardware 
configurations that help keep you safe. Measured boot, implemented by bootloaders and 
BIOS, verifies and cryptographically records each step of the boot in a chained manner. These 
events are bound to the TPM that functions as a hardware root-of-trust. Remote attestation 
is the mechanism by which these events are read and verified by a service to provide a 
verifiable, unbiased, and tamper resilient report. Remote attestation is the trusted auditor of 
your systems boot, allowing relying parties to bind trust to the device and its security.
A summary of the steps involved in attestation and zero-trust on a Windows device are 
as follows:
•	During each step of the boot process, such as a file load, update of special variables, and 
more, information such as file hashes and signature(s) are measured in the TPM Platform 
Configuration Register (PCRs). The measurements are bound by a Trusted Computing 
Group specification that dictates what events can be recorded and the format of each 
event. The data provides important information about device security from the moment it 
powers on.
•	Once Windows has booted, the attestor (or verifier) requests the TPM to get the 
measurements stored in its PCRs alongside the measured boot log. Together these form 
the attestation evidence that’s sent to the Microsoft Azure Attestation Service.
•	The TPM is verified by using the keys/cryptographic material available on the chipset with 
an Azure Certificate Service.
•	The above information is sent to the Azure Attestation service to verify that the device is 
in a trusted state.
Windows security policy settings and auditing
Security policy settings are a critical part of your overall security strategy. Windows provides 
a robust set of security setting policies IT administrators can use to help protect Windows 
devices and other resources in your organization. Security settings policies are rules you can 
configure on a device, or multiple devices, to control:
•	User authentication to a network or device.
•	Resources users are permitted to access.
•	Whether to record a user’s or group’s actions in the event log.
•	Membership in a group.

--- Página 22 ---
22
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Security auditing is one of the most powerful tools that you can use to maintain the integrity 
of your network and assets. Auditing can help identify attacks, network vulnerabilities, and 
attacks against targets you consider high value. You can specify categories of security-related 
events to create an audit policy tailored to the needs of your organization.
All auditing categories are disabled when Windows is first installed. Before enabling them, 
follow these steps to create an effective security auditing policy:
1.	 Identify your most critical resources and activities.
2.	 Identify the audit settings you need to track them.
3.	 Assess the advantages and potential costs associated with each resource or setting.
4.	 Test these settings to validate your choices.
5.	 Develop plans for deploying and managing your audit policy. 
Learn more about security policy settings and security auditing.
Windows security app
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Visibility and awareness of device security and health are key to any action taken. The 
Windows built-in security application found in settings provides an at-a-glance view of 
the security status and health of your device. These insights help you identify issues and 
act to make sure you’re protected. You can quickly see the status of your virus and threat 
protection, firewall and network security, device security controls, and more.
Learn more about the Windows security app.

--- Página 23 ---
23
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Encryption and data protection
When people travel with their PCs, their confidential information travels with them. Wherever 
confidential data is stored, it must be protected against unauthorized access, whether 
through physical device theft or from malicious applications. 
BitLocker
Note: BitLocker encryption does not apply to Windows 11 Home.
BitLocker Drive Encryption is a data protection feature that integrates with the operating 
system and addresses the threats of data theft or exposure from lost, stolen, or 
inappropriately decommissioned computers. BitLocker uses AES algorithm in XTS or CBC 
mode of operation with 128-bit or 256-bit key length to encrypt data on the volume. Cloud 
storage on Microsoft OneDrive or Azure6 can be used to save recovery key content. BitLocker 
can be managed by any MDM solution such as Microsoft Intune6 using a configuration 
service provider (CSP).
BitLocker provides encryption for the OS, fixed data, and removable data drives leveraging 
technologies like hardware security test interface (HSTI), Modern Standby, UEFI Secure Boot 
and TPM. Windows consistently improves data protection by improving existing options and 
providing new strategies.
Encrypted hard drive
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education. 
Encrypted hard drives are a class of hard drives that are self-encrypted at the hardware 
level and allow for full disk hardware encryption while being transparent to the device user. 
These drives combine the security and management benefits provided by BitLocker Drive 
Encryption with the power of self-encrypting drives. 
By offloading the cryptographic operations to hardware, encrypted hard drives increase 
BitLocker performance and reduce CPU usage and power consumption. Because encrypted 
hard drives encrypt data quickly, BitLocker deployment can be expanded across enterprise 
devices with little to no impact on productivity.
Encrypted hard drives enable:
•	Smooth performance: Encryption hardware, integrated into the drive controller, allows the 
drive to operate at full data rate without performance degradation.
•	Strong security based in hardware: Encryption is always “on” and the keys for encryption 
never leave the hard drive. The drive authenticates users independently from the 
operating system before it unlocks.

--- Página 24 ---
24
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
•	Ease of use: Encryption is transparent to the user and the user does not need to enable 
it. Encrypted hard drives are easily erased using an on-board encryption key; there is no 
need to re-encrypt data on the drive.
•	Lower cost of ownership: There is no need for new infrastructure to manage encryption 
keys since BitLocker leverages your existing infrastructure to store recovery information. 
Your device operates more efficiently because processor cycles do not need to be used for 
the encryption process.
Personal data encryption
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Enterprise and Education.
Personal data encryption works with BitLocker and Windows Hello for Business to further 
protect user documents and other files, including when the device is turned on and locked. 
Files are encrypted automatically and seamlessly to give users more security without 
interrupting their workflow. To access encrypted data, the user must authenticate with 
Windows Hello for Business, which links biometrics or other credentials with data encryption 
keys to safely access the file.
Email encryption
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Email encryption enables users to encrypt outgoing email messages and attachments, so only 
intended recipients with a digital identification (ID)—also called a certificate—can read them.7 
Users can digitally sign a message, which verifies the identity of the sender and ensures the 
message has not been tampered with.
These encrypted messages can be sent by a user to people within their organization as well 
as external contacts if they have proper encryption certificates. 
However, recipients using Windows 10 Mail app can only read encrypted messages if the 
message is received on their Exchange account and they have corresponding decryption 
keys. Encrypted messages can be read only by recipients who have a certificate. If an 
encrypted message is sent to recipient(s) whose encryption certificate are not available, the 
app will prompt you to remove these recipients before sending the email.

--- Página 25 ---
25
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Network security
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Windows 11 raises the bar for network security, offering comprehensive protection to help 
people work with confidence from almost anywhere. To help reduce an organization’s attack 
surface, network protection in Windows prevents people from accessing dangerous IP 
addresses and domains that may host phishing scams, exploits, and other malicious content. 
Using reputation-based services, network protection blocks access to potentially harmful, 
low-reputation based domains and IP addresses.
New DNS and TLS protocol versions strengthen the end-to-end protections needed for 
applications, web services, and zero-trust networking. File access adds an untrusted network 
scenario with SMB over QUIC as well as new encryption and signing capabilities. Wi-Fi 
and Bluetooth advancements also provide greater trust in connections to other devices. In 
addition, VPN and Windows Defender Firewall platforms offer new ways to easily configure 
and debug software.
In enterprise environments, network protection works best with Microsoft Defender 
for Endpoint, which provides detailed reporting on protection events as part of larger 
investigation scenarios. Learn more about how to protect your network.
Transport layer security (TLS)
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: including Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, 
Pro Education, and Education.
Transport Layer Security (TLS) is the internet’s most deployed security protocol, encrypting 
data in transit to provide a secure communication channel between two endpoints. Windows 
prefers the latest protocol versions and strong cipher suites by default and offers a full 
suite of extensions such as client authentication for enhanced server security, or session 
resumption for improved application performance.
TLS 1.3 is the latest version of the protocol and is enabled by default in Windows 11. 
This version eliminates obsolete cryptographic algorithms, enhances security over older 
versions, and aims to encrypt as much of the TLS handshake as possible. The handshake is 
more performant with one fewer round trip per connection on average and supports only 
five strong cipher suites which provide perfect forward secrecy and less operational risk. 
Customers using TLS 1.3 (or Windows components that support it, including HTTP.SYS, 
WinInet, .NET, MsQUIC, and more) on Windows 11 will get more privacy and lower latencies 
for their encrypted online connections. Note that if the client or server application on either 
side of the connection does not support TLS 1.3, Windows will fall back to TLS 1.2.

--- Página 26 ---
26
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
DNS security
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
In Windows 11, the Windows DNS client supports DNS over HTTPS, an encrypted DNS 
protocol. This allows administrators to ensure their devices protect their name queries from 
on-path attackers, whether they are passive observers logging browsing behavior or active 
attackers trying to redirect clients to malicious sites. In a zero-trust model where there is no 
trust placed in a network boundary, having a secure connection to a trusted name resolver 
is required.
Windows 11 provides Group Policy as well as programmatic controls to configure DNS 
over HTTP behavior. As a result, IT administrators can extend existing security to adopt new 
models such as zero trust. IT administrators can mandate DNS over HTTP protocol, ensuring 
that devices that use insecure DNS will fail to connect to network resources. IT administrators 
also have the option not to use DNS over HTTP for legacy deployments where network edge 
appliances are trusted to inspect plain-text DNS traffic. By default, Windows 11 will defer to 
the local administrator on which resolvers should use DNS over HTTP.
Support for DNS encryption integrates with existing Windows DNS configurations such as 
the Name Resolution Policy Table (NRPT), the system HOSTS file, as well as resolvers specified 
per network adapter or network profile. The integration helps Windows 11 ensure that the 
benefits of greater DNS security do not regress existing DNS control mechanisms.
Bluetooth protection 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
The number of Bluetooth devices connected to Windows continues to increase. Windows 
users connect their Bluetooth headsets, mice, keyboard, and other accessories and 
improve their day-to-day PC experience by enjoying streaming, productivity, and gaming. 
Windows supports all standard Bluetooth pairing protocols, including classic and LE 
Secure connections, secure simple pairing, and classic and LE legacy pairing. Windows 
also implements host based LE privacy. Windows updates help users stay current with OS 
and driver security features in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG), 
Standard Vulnerability Reports, as well as issues beyond those required by the Bluetooth core 
industry standards. Microsoft strongly recommends that you also ensure your firmware and/ 
or software of your Bluetooth accessories are kept up to date.
IT-managed environments have a number of Bluetooth policies (MDM, Group Policy and 
PowerShell) that can be managed through MDM tools such as Microsoft Intune. You can 
configure Windows to use Bluetooth technology while supporting the security needs of your 
organization. For example, you can allow input and audio while blocking file transfer, force 
encryption standards, limit Windows discoverability, or even disable Bluetooth entirely for the 
most sensitive environments.

--- Página 27 ---
27
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Securing Wi-Fi connections
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Windows Wi-Fi supports industry standardized authentication and encryption methods when 
connecting to Wi-Fi networks. WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access) is a security standard developed 
by the Wi-Fi Alliance to provide sophisticated data encryption and better user authentication 
The current security standard for Wi-Fi Authentication is WPA3 which provides a more 
secure and reliable connection method and replaces WPA2 and older security protocols. 
Opportunistic Wireless Encryption (OWE) is a technology that allows wireless devices to 
establish encrypted connections to public Wi-Fi hotspots.
WPA3 is supported in Windows 11 (WPA3 Personal and WPA3 Enterprise 192-bit Suite B) as 
well as OWE implementation for more security while connecting to Wi-Fi hotspots.
Windows 11 enhances Wi-Fi security by enabling additional elements of WPA3 security such 
as the new H2E protocol and WPA3 Enterprise Support which includes enhanced Server Cert 
validation and the TLS1.3 for authentication using EAP-TLS Authentication. Windows 11 
provides Microsoft partners the ability to bring the best platform security on new devices.
WPA3 is now a mandatory requirement by WFA for any Wi-Fi Certification.
Windows Defender Firewall 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security is an important part of a layered 
security model. It provides host-based, two-way network traffic filtering, blocking 
unauthorized traffic flowing into or out of the local device based on the types of networks 
to which the device is connected.
Windows Defender Firewall in Windows 11 offers the following benefits:
•	Reduces the risk of network security threats: Windows Defender Firewall reduces the 
attack surface of a device with rules to restrict or allow traffic by many properties such as 
IP addresses, ports, or program paths. Reducing the attack surface of a device increases 
manageability and decreases the likelihood of a successful attack.
•	Safeguards sensitive data and intellectual property: With its integration with Internet 
Protocol Security (IPsec), Windows Defender Firewall provides a simple way to enforce 
authenticated, end-to-end network communications. It provides scalable, tiered access to 
trusted network resources, helping to enforce integrity of the data, and optionally helping 
to protect the confidentiality of the data.

--- Página 28 ---
28
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
•	Extends the value of existing investments: Because Windows Defender Firewall is a host-
based firewall that is included with the operating system, there is no additional hardware 
or software required. Windows Defender Firewall is also designed to complement 
existing non-Microsoft network security solutions through a documented application 
programming interface (API).

Windows 11 makes the Windows Defender Firewall easier to analyze and debug. IPsec 
behavior has been integrated with Packet Monitor (pktmon), an in-box cross-component 
network diagnostic tool for Windows. Additionally, the Windows Defender Firewall event logs 
have been enhanced to ensure an audit can identify the specific filter that was responsible 
for any given event. This enables analysis of firewall behavior and rich packet capture without 
relying on third-party tools.
Virtual private networks (VPN)
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Organizations have long relied on Windows to provide reliable, secured, and manageable 
virtual private network (VPN) solutions. The Windows VPN client platform includes built-
in VPN protocols, configuration support, a common VPN user interface, and programming 
support for custom VPN protocols. VPN apps are available in the Microsoft Store for both 
enterprise and consumer VPNs, including apps for the most popular enterprise 
VPN gateways.
In Windows 11 we’ve integrated the most commonly used VPN controls right into the 
Windows 11 Quick Actions pane. From the Quick Actions pane users can see the status of 
their VPN, start and stop the VPN tunnels, and with one click can go to the modern Settings 
app for more control.
The Windows VPN platform connects to Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) and Conditional 
Access for single sign-on, including multi-factor authentication (MFA) through Azure AD.6 
The VPN platform also supports classic domain-joined authentication. It’s supported by 
Microsoft Endpoint Manager and other mobile device management (MDM) providers. The 
flexible VPN profile supports both built-in protocols and custom protocols, can configure 
multiple authentication methods, can be automatically started as needed or manually started 
by the end-user, and supports split-tunnel VPN and exclusive VPN with exceptions for trusted 
external sites.
With Universal Windows Platform (UWP) VPN apps, end users never get stuck on an old 
version of their VPN client. VPN apps from the store will be automatically updated as needed. 
Naturally, the updates are in the control of your IT admins.
The Windows VPN platform has been tuned and hardened for cloud-based VPN providers 
like Azure VPN. Features like AAD auth, Windows user interface integration, plumbing

--- Página 29 ---
29
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
IKE traffic selectors, and server support are all built into the Windows VPN platform. The 
integration into the Windows VPN platform leads to a simpler IT admin experience; user 
authentication is more consistent, and users can easily find and control their VPN.
SMB file services
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education. Except when noted differently.
SMB and file services are the most common Windows workload in the commercial and 
public sector ecosystem. Users and applications rely on SMB to access the files that run 
organizations large and small. In Windows 11, the SMB protocol has significant security 
updates to meet today’s threats, including AES-256 bits encryption, accelerated SMB signing, 
Remote Directory Memory Access (RDMA) network encryption, and entirely new scenario, 
SMB over QUIC for untrusted networks.
SMB Encryption provides end-to-end encryption of SMB data and protects data from 
eavesdropping occurrences on internal networks. Windows 11 introduces AES-256-GCM and 
AES-256-CCM cryptographic suites for SMB 3.1.1 encryption. Windows administrators can 
mandate the use of this more advanced security or continue to use the more compatible and 
still-safe AES-128 encryption. 
In Windows 11 Enterprise, Education, and Pro Workstation, SMB Direct now supports 
encryption. For demanding workloads like video rendering, data science, or extremely large 
files, you can now operate with the same safety as traditional TCP and the performance 
of RDMA. Previously, enabling SMB encryption disabled direct data placement, making 
RDMA as slow as TCP. Now data is encrypted before placement, leading to relatively minor 
performance degradation while adding AES-128 and AES-256 protected packet privacy.
Windows 11 introduces AES-128-GMAC for SMB signing. Windows will automatically 
negotiate this better-performing cipher method when connecting to another computer that 
supports it. Signing prevents common attacks like relay, spoofing, and is required by default 
when clients communicate with Active Directory domain controllers.
Finally, Windows 11 introduces SMB over QUIC (Preview), an alternative to the TCP network 
transport, providing secure, reliable connectivity to edge file servers over untrusted 
networks like the Internet as well as highly secure communications on internal networks. 
QUIC is an IETF-standardized protocol with many benefits when compared with TCP, but 
most importantly it always requires TLS 1.3 and encryption. SMB over QUIC offers an “SMB 
VPN” for telecommuters, mobile device users, and high security organizations. All SMB 
traffic, including authentication and authorization within the tunnel is never exposed to 
the underlying network. SMB behaves normally within the QUIC tunnel, meaning the user 
experience doesn’t change. SMB over QUIC will be a game changing feature for Windows 11 
accessing Windows file servers and eventually Azure Files and third parties.

--- Página 30 ---
30
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Virus and threat protection
Today’s cyber threat landscape is more complex than ever. This new world requires a new 
approach to threat prevention, detection, and response. Microsoft Defender Antivirus, along 
with many other features that are built into Windows 11, are at the frontlines to protect 
customers against current and emerging threats. 
Microsoft Defender Antivirus
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education. 
Microsoft Defender Antivirus is a next-generation protection solution included in all versions 
of Windows 10 and Windows 11. From the moment you boot Windows, Microsoft Defender 
Antivirus continually monitors for malware, viruses, and security threats. In addition to real-
time protection, updates are downloaded automatically to help keep your device safe and 
protect it from threats. If you have another antivirus app installed and turned on, Microsoft 
Defender Antivirus will turn off automatically. If you uninstall the other app, Microsoft 
Defender Antivirus will turn back on. 
Microsoft Defender Antivirus, includes real-time, behavior-based, and heuristic antivirus 
protection. This combination of always-on content scanning, file and process behavior 
monitoring, and other heuristics effectively prevents security threats. Microsoft Defender 
Antivirus continually scans for malware and threats and also detects and blocks potentially 
unwanted applications (PUA) which are applications that are deemed to negatively impact 
your device but are not considered malware. 
Microsoft Defender Antivirus always-on protection is integrated with cloud-delivered 
protection, which helps ensure near instant detection and blocking of new and emerging 
threats. This combination of local and cloud-delivered technologies provides award-winning 
protection at home and at work.

--- Página 31 ---
31
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Attack surface 
reduction rules
Endpoint 
detection and 
response 
(EDR) in block 
mode
Indicators of 
compromise 
(IoCs)
Checking 
against metadata
in the cloud
Cloud protection 
and sample 
submissions
Tamper
protection
enforcement
Block at
first sight
Emergency
signature
updates
Turn on cloud
protection
Learn more about next generation protection with Microsoft Defender Antivirus.
Additional protection for Local Security Authority 
Note: This section applies to all Windows 11 editions, Home, Pro, Enterprise, Education and IoT.
Windows has several critical processes to verify a user’s identity. Verification processes 
include Local Security Authority (LSA) which is responsible for authenticating users and 
verifying Windows logins. LSA handles tokens and credentials such as passwords that 
are used for single sign-on to a Microsoft account and Azure services. To help protect 
these credentials, additional LSA protection will be enabled by default on new, enterprise-
joined Windows 11 devices. By loading only trusted, signed code, LSA provides significant 
protection against credential theft.
Attack surface reduction
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Attack surface reduction rules help prevent software behaviors that are often abused to 
compromise your device or network. By reducing the number of attack surfaces, you can 
reduce the overall vulnerability of your organization. Administrators can configure specific 
attack surface reduction rules to help block certain behaviors, such as:

--- Página 32 ---
32
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
•	Launching executable files and scripts that attempt to download or run files
•	Running obfuscated or otherwise suspicious scripts
•	Performing behaviors that apps don’t usually initiate during normal day-to-day work
For example, an attacker might try to run an unsigned script from a USB drive or have a 
macro in an Office document make calls directly to the Win32 API. Attack surface reduction 
rules can constrain these kinds of risky behaviors and improve the defensive posture of the 
device. For comprehensive protection, follow steps for enabling hardware-based isolation 
for Microsoft Edge and reducing the attack surface across applications, folders, device, 
network, and firewall.
Learn more about attack surface reduction.

Tamper protection
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.8
Attacks like ransomware attempt to disable security features, such as anti-virus protection. 
Bad actors like to disable security features to get easier access to user’s data, to install 
malware, or to otherwise exploit user’s data, identity, and devices without fear of being 
blocked. Tamper protection helps prevent these kinds of activities.
With tamper protection, malware is prevented from taking actions such as:
•	Disabling real-time protection
•	Turning off behavior monitoring
•	Disabling antivirus (such as IOfficeAntivirus (IOAV))
•	Disabling cloud-delivered protection
•	Removing security intelligence updates

Learn more about tamper protection.

--- Página 33 ---
33
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Microsoft vulnerable driver blocklist
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.8 
The Windows kernel is the most privileged software and is therefore a compelling target 
for malware authors. Since Windows has strict requirements for code running in the kernel, 
cybercriminals commonly exploit vulnerabilities in kernel drivers to get access. Microsoft 
works with the ecosystem partners to constantly identify and respond to potentially 
vulnerable kernel drivers. Prior to Windows 11 2022 Update, Windows enforced a block policy 
when HVCI is enabled to prevent vulnerable versions of drivers from running. Beginning with 
Windows 11 2022 Update, the block policy is now on by default for all new Windows PCs and 
users can opt-in to enforce the policy from the Windows Security app. 
Controlled folder access
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.9
You can protect your valuable information in specific folders by managing app access to 
specific folders. Only trusted apps can access protected folders, which are specified when 
controlled folder access is configured. Typically, commonly used folders, such as those used 
for documents, pictures, downloads, are included in the list of controlled folders.
Controlled folder access works with a list of trusted apps. Apps that are included in the 
list of trusted software work as expected. Apps that are not included in the trusted list are 
prevented from making any changes to files inside protected folders.
Controlled folder access helps protect user’s valuable data from malicious apps and threats, 
such as ransomware. Learn more about controlled folder access. 
Exploit protection 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education 
and, Education.9
Exploit protection automatically applies several exploit mitigation techniques to operating 
system processes and apps. Exploit protection works best with Microsoft Defender6 for 
Endpoint, which gives organizations detailed reporting into exploit protection events and 
blocks as part of typical alert investigation scenarios. You can enable exploit protection on an 
individual device, and then use Group Policy in Azure Active Directory to distribute the XML 
file to multiple devices simultaneously.
When a mitigation is encountered on the device, a notification will be displayed from the 
Action Center. You can customize the notification with your company details and contact

--- Página 34 ---
34
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
information. You can also enable the rules individually to customize which techniques the 
feature monitors.
You can use audit mode to evaluate how exploit protection would impact your organization if 
it were enabled.
Windows 11 provides configuration options for exploit protection. You can prevent users 
from modifying these specific options with Group Policy. Learn more about protecting 
devices from exploits.
Microsoft Defender SmartScreen
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Microsoft Defender SmartScreen protects against phishing, malware websites and 
applications, and the downloading of potentially malicious files. 
SmartScreen determines whether a site is potentially malicious by:
•	Analyzing visited webpages looking for indications of suspicious behavior. If it determines 
a page is suspicious, it will show a warning page to advise caution.
•	Checking the visited sites against a dynamic list of reported phishing sites and malicious 
software sites. If it finds a match, SmartScreen warns that that the site might be malicious.

SmartScreen also determines whether a downloaded app or app installer is potentially 
malicious by:
•	Checking downloaded files against a list of reported malicious software sites and 
programs known to be unsafe. If it finds a match, SmartScreen warns that the site might 
be malicious.
•	Checking downloaded files against a list of well-known downloaded files. If the file is not 
on that list, Smartscreen displays a caution alert.
For enhanced phishing protection, SmartScreen also alerts people when they are entering 
their Microsoft credentials into a potentially risky location. IT can customize which 
notifications appear through Microsoft Endpoint Manager. This protection runs in audit 
mode by default, giving IT admins full control to make decisions around policy creation 
and enforcement.

--- Página 35 ---
35
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Because Windows 11 comes with these enhancements already built-in and enabled, users 
have extra security from the moment they turn on their device.
The app and browser control section contains information and settings for Microsoft 
Defender SmartScreen. IT administrators and IT pros can get configuration guidance in the 
Microsoft Defender SmartScreen documentation library.

Microsoft Defender for Endpoint 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint is an enterprise endpoint detection and response 
solution that helps security teams detect, investigate, and respond to advanced threats.10 
Organizations can use the rich event data and attack insights Defender for Endpoint provides 
to investigate incidents. Defender for Endpoint brings together the following elements to 
provide a more complete picture of security incidents:
•	Endpoint behavioral sensors: Embedded in Windows, these sensors collect and process 
behavioral signals from the operating system and send this sensor data to your private, 
isolated, cloud instance of Microsoft Defender for Endpoint.
•	Cloud security analytics: Leveraging big-data, device-learning, and unique Microsoft 
optics across the Windows ecosystem, enterprise cloud products such as Microsoft 
365⁶ and online assets, behavioral signals are translated into insights, detections, and 
recommended responses to advanced threats.
•	Threat intelligence: Microsoft processes over 43 trillion security signals every 24 hours 
yielding a deep and broad view into the evolving threat landscape. Combined with our 
global team of security experts, and cutting-edge artificial intelligence and machine 
learning, we can see threats that others miss. This threat intelligence helps provide 
unparalleled protection for our customers. The protections built into our platforms 
and products blocked attacks that include 31 billion identity threats and 32 billion 
email threats. 
•	Rich response capabilities: Empowering SecOps teams to isolate, remediate, and remote 
into machines to further investigate and stop active threats in their environment, as well 
as block files, network destinations, and create alerts for them. In addition, Automated 
Investigation and Remediation can help reduce the load on the SOC by already 
performing these normally manual steps towards remediation and providing detailed 
investigation outcomes.

--- Página 36 ---
36
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Defender for Endpoint is also part of Microsoft 365 Defender, our end-to-end cloud native 
XDR solution that combines best of breed endpoint, email, and identity security products 
enabling organizations to prevent, detect, investigate, and remediate attacks by delivering 
deep visibility, granular context, and actionable insights generated from raw signals 
harnessed across the Microsoft 365 environment and other platforms, all synthesized into 
a single dashboard. This solution offers tremendous value to organizations of any size, 
especially those that are looking to break away from the added complexity of multiple point 
solutions, not only by keeping them protected from sophisticated attacks but by saving IT 
and security teams time and resources that could have been better used elsewhere. 
Learn more about Microsoft Defender for Endpoint and Microsoft 365 Defender.

--- Página 37 ---
37
Application 
Security

--- Página 38 ---
38
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Cybercriminals can take advantage of poorly secured applications to access valuable 
resources. With Windows 11, IT admins can combat common application attacks from 
the moment a device is provisioned. For example, IT can remove local admin rights from 
user accounts, so that PCs run with least privilege to prevent malicious applications from 
accessing sensitive resources. 
In addition, organizations can control which applications run on their devices with Windows 
Defender Application Control. 
Windows 11 offers a rich application platform with layers of security like isolation and code 
integrity that help protect your valuable data. Developers can also take advantage of these 
capabilities to build in security from the ground up to protect against breaches and malware.
User Account Control 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
User Account Control (UAC) helps prevent malware from damaging a PC and helps 
organizations deploy a better-managed desktop. With UAC, apps and tasks always run in 
the security context of a non-administrator account, unless an administrator specifically 
authorizes administrator-level access to the system. UAC can block the automatic installation 
of unauthorized apps and prevent inadvertent changes to system settings.

--- Página 39 ---
39
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Organizations can use a modern device management (MDM) solution like Microsoft Endpoint 
Manager to remotely configure UAC settings. Organizations without MDM can change 
settings directly on the device.
Enabling UAC helps prevent malware from altering PC settings and potentially gaining access 
to networks and sensitive data. UAC can also block the automatic installation of unauthorized 
apps and prevent inadvertent changes to system settings. 
Users with standard accounts, or those using administrative accounts with UAC enabled, 
run most programs with limited access rights. This includes the Windows shell and any apps 
started from the shell such as Windows Explorer, a web browser, productivity suite, graphics 
programs, or games.
Some apps require additional permissions and will not work properly (or at all) when running 
with limited permissions. When an app needs to run with more than standard user rights, 
UAC allows users to run apps with a “full” administrator token (with administrative groups 
and privileges) instead of their default user access token. Users continue to operate in the 
standard user security context, while enabling certain executables to run with elevated 
privileges, if needed.

Learn more about How User Account Control works.

--- Página 40 ---
40
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC)
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Your organization is only as secure as the applications that run on your devices. With 
application control, apps must earn trust to run, in contrast to an application trust model 
where all code is assumed trustworthy. By helping prevent unwanted or malicious code 
from running, application control is an important part of an effective security strategy. Many 
organizations cite application control as one of the most effective means for addressing the 
threat of executable file-based malware.
Windows 10 and above include Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) as well as 
AppLocker. WDAC is the next generation app control solution for Windows and provides 
powerful control over what runs in your environment. Customers who were using AppLocker 
on previous versions of Windows can continue to use the feature as they consider whether to 
switch to WDAC for the stronger protection. Learn more about WDAC and AppLocker.
To simplify WDAC enablement, organizations can take advantage of Azure Code Signing, a 
secure and fully-managed service for signing WDAC policies and apps. 
Smart App Control
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education. Smart App Control availability may vary by market and user profile.
Smart App Control prevents users from running malicious applications on Windows devices 
by blocking untrusted or unsigned applications. Smart App Control goes beyond previous 
built-in browser protections, by adding another layer of security that is woven directly into 
the core of the OS at the process level. Using AI, our new Smart App Control only allows 
processes to run that are predicted to be safe based on existing and new intelligence 
processed daily. Smart App Control builds on top of the same cloud-based AI used in 
Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) to predict the safety of an application, so 
people can be confident they are using safe and reliable applications on their new Windows 
devices. Additionally, unknown script files and macros from the web are blocked when Smart 
App Control is active, greatly improving security for everyday users while using the internet. 
Designed for consumers and information workers that use known and signed applications 
in their daily work, Smart App Control will ship with new devices with Windows 11, version 
22H2 installed. Devices running previous versions of Windows 11 will have to be reset with 
a clean installation of Windows 11, version 22H2 to take advantage of this feature. Smart 
App Control will be disabled on devices enrolled in enterprise management. We suggest 
enterprises running line of business applications continue to leverage Microsoft Defender 
Application Guard.

--- Página 41 ---
41
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Application Guard for Microsoft Office and Application Guard for Microsoft Edge
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Enterprise, and Education.
Application Guard is designed to help keep employees productive by protecting against 
current and emerging threats.11 
Attackers take advantage of social engineering tactics to deceive users and influence their 
actions—from opening a malicious link in an email to directing them to a compromised 
website. Malicious code executes when the content is opened, exploits vulnerabilities, and 
downloads malware to the device.
Scans and filters might not provide enough protection when users voluntarily execute 
malicious code. Hardware isolation can help defend against such exploits. Based on the 
zero-trust principles of explicit verification, least privilege access, and assumption of breach, 
isolation treats any application and browsing session as untrustworthy by default, adding 
multiple roadblocks for attackers attempting to get into user environments.
Integral to the Windows 11 chip-to-cloud security posture, isolation enables applications to 
run in a virtualized environment to reduce the potential impact of malicious code. 
Application Guard uses chip-based hardware isolation to seamlessly run untrusted websites 
and Office files in a Hyper-V-based container separated from the host operating system. As 
a result, anything that happens in the container stays isolated from the desktop operating 
system. If malicious code originates from a document or website running inside the 
container, the infection is contained and the desktop stays intact.
Application Guard protects Office files including Word, PowerPoint, and Excel. It also protects 
websites opened in Edge browser, and a plugin is available for browsers such as Google 
Chrome and Mozilla Firefox. Application icons will have a small shield if Application Guard 
has been enabled and they are under protection.
Learn more about Application Guard. Application Guard for Microsoft Edge and Application 
Guard for Microsoft Office E5 are configured using an MDM such as Microsoft Endpoint 
Manager. Also see blog post Defend against zero-day exploits with isolation technology.

--- Página 42 ---
42
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Hardware isolation of Microsoft Edge & Microsoft Office
Device hardware
Hypervisor
Microsoft Defender 
Application Guard
Microsoft Defender 
Application Guard
Microsoft Defender
System Guard
Operating System
Kernel
Microsoft Office
Microsoft Edge
Apps
Kernel
Kernel
Kernel
Windows platform 
services
Windows platform 
services
Windows platform 
services
Critical system 
processes
App containers
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
In addition to Application Guard for Office and Edge, Universal Windows Platform (UWP) 
applications run in Windows containers known as app containers. App containers act as 
process and resource isolation boundaries, but unlike docker containers, these are special 
containers designed to run Windows applications.
Processes that run in app containers operate with low integrity level, meaning they have 
limited access to resources they do not own. Because the default integrity level of most 
resources is medium integrity level, the UWP app can access only a subset of the filesystem, 
registry, and other resources. The app container also enforces restrictions on network 
connectivity; for example, access to a local host is not allowed. As a result, malware or 
infected apps have limited footprint for escape.
Learn more about Windows and app containers.

--- Página 43 ---
43
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Developing secure applications
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Developers have an opportunity to design highly secure applications that benefit from the 
latest Windows 11 safeguards. The Windows App SDK provides a unified set of APIs and 
tools for developing desktop apps for Windows 11 and Windows 10. To help create apps that 
are up-to-date and protected, the SDK follows the same security standards, protocols, and 
compliance as the core Windows operating system.
If you are a developer, you can find security best practices and information at Windows 
application development—best practices. You can get started with Windows App SDK 
Samples on GitHub. For an example of the continuous security process in action with the 
Windows App SDK, see the most recent release.

--- Página 44 ---
44
Identity

--- Página 45 ---
45
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Secured Identity
Hybrid work is here to stay, and the security of your organization depends on the right user 
access, the right device, and the right data. Weak passwords, password reuse, password 
spraying, and phishing are the entry points for many attacks. Hackers launch more than 
800 password attacks per second worldwide. And phishing attacks have increased, making 
identity a continuous battleground for attacks. As Bret Arsenault, Chief Information Security 
Officer at Microsoft says, “Hackers don’t break in, they log in.”
Hardware and software technologies work together in Windows to deliver powerful, ongoing 
protection of identity and privacy from the moment you sign onto your device.
To significantly reduce the risk of compromise in today’s hybrid workplace, Windows 11 
provides identity and credential protection options to meet business needs while helping 
organizations comply with ever-evolving regulations. 
Enabling passwordless sign in
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.

--- Página 46 ---
46
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Passwords are inconvenient to use and prime targets for cybercriminals—and they’ve been 
an important part of digital security for years. That changes with the passwordless protection 
available with Windows 11. After a secure authorization process, credentials are protected 
behind layers of hardware and software security, giving users secure, passwordless access to 
their apps and cloud services.
New
Password
New
Password
Secure 
Enough
Something 
I can 
remember
Something 
I can’t 
remember
Not 
secure
Windows Hello—a key to your passwordless future
Note: Windows Hello applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
The premier built-in passwordless solution for Windows is Windows Hello which provides 
built-in support for the Fast ID Online v2.0 (FIDO2) passwordless industry standard without 
the hassle of extra security keys. Windows Hello provides a secure, convenient sign-in 
experience by augmenting or replacing passwords with a stronger authentication model 
based on a PIN or biometric sign in such as facial or fingerprint recognition all secured by the 
Trusted Platform Module (TPM).⁵ Step by step guidance makes set up easy.
Using asymmetric keys provisioned in the TPM, Windows Hello protects authentication by 
binding a user’s credentials to their device. Windows Hello validates the user based on either 
a PIN or biometrics match and only then releases cryptographic keys bound to that user in 
the TPM. 
PIN and biometric data stays on the device and cannot be stored or accessed externally. 
Since the data cannot be accessed by anyone without physical access to the device, 
credentials are protected against replay attacks, phishing, and spoofing as well as password 
reuse and leaks.

--- Página 47 ---
47
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Windows Hello can authenticate users to a Microsoft account (MSA), Active Directory (AD), 
Azure Active Directory (AAD), identity provider services, or relying parties that also meets the 
FIDO2 standards.
•	Windows Hello can be used with your personal MSA to access your OneDrive, Microsoft 
email, and other apps. 
•	Windows Hello for Business works with your organization’s Active Directory and Azure 
Active Directory accounts giving you access to work or school resources. 

Unlocking credentials with Windows Hello for Business 
Windows 11 devices can protect user identities by removing the need to use passwords from 
day one. It’s easy to get started with the method that’s right for your organization. 
A password may only need to be used once during the provisioning process, after which 
people use a PIN, face, or fingerprint to unlock credentials and sign into the device. 
Provisioning methods include:
•	Temporary Access Pass (TAP), a time-limited passcode with strong authentication 
requirements issued through Azure Active Directory.
•	Existing multi-factor authentication with Azure Active Directory, including authentication 
methods like the Microsoft Authenticator app.

Windows Hello for Business replaces the username and password by combining a security 
key or certificate with a PIN or biometrics data, and then mapping the credentials to a 
user account during setup. There are multiple ways to deploy Windows Hello for Business, 
depending on your organization’s needs. Organizations that rely on certificates typically use 
on-premises public key infrastructure (PKI) to support authentication through Certificate 
Trust. Organizations using key trust deployment require root-of-trust provided by certificates 
on domain controllers.
Now, organizations with hybrid scenarios can eliminate the need for on-premises domain 
controllers and simplify passwordless adoption by using Windows Hello for Business 
cloud trust.12 Running on Azure Active Directory Kerberos, this solution uses security 
keys and replaces on-premises domain controllers with a cloud-based root-of-trust. As 
a result, organizations can take advantage of Windows Hello for Business and deploy 
passwordless security keys with minimal additional setup or infrastructure. Users will 
authenticate directly with Azure Active Directory, helping speed access to on-premises 
applications and other resources.

--- Página 48 ---
48
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Windows Hello PIN
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
The Windows Hello PIN, which can only be entered by someone with physical access to the 
device, can be used for strong multifactor authentication. The PIN is protected by the TPM—
and like biometric data—never leaves the device. When you enter your PIN, an authentication 
key is unlocked and used to sign a request sent to the authenticating server. The TPM 
protects against threats including PIN brute-force attacks on lost or stolen devices. After too 
many incorrect guesses, the device locks. IT admins can set security policies for PINs such as 
complexity, length, and expiration. 
Windows Hello biometric sign in
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Windows Hello biometric sign in enhances both security and productivity with a quick, 
convenient sign on experience. And there’s no need to enter a password each time when 
your face or fingerprint is your credential. 
Windows devices that support biometric hardware such as fingerprint or facial recognition 
cameras integrate directly with Windows Hello, enabling access to Windows client resources 
and services. Biometric readers for both face and fingerprint must comply with Microsoft 
Microsoft Windows Hello biometric requirements. Windows Hello facial recognition is 
designed to only authenticate from trusted cameras used at the time of enrollment.
If a peripheral camera is attached to the device after enrollment, that camera will only be 
allowed for facial authentication after it has been validated by signing in with the internal 
camera. For additional security, external cameras can be disabled for use with Windows Hello 
facial recognition.
Windows presence sensing13 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
Windows presence sensing provides another layer of data security protection for hybrid 
workers. Windows 11 devices can intelligently adapt to your presence to help you stay 
secure and productive, whether you’re working at home, the office, or a public environment. 
Windows presence sensing combines presence detection sensors with Windows Hello facial 
recognition to sign you in hands-free, and automatically locks your device when you leave.

--- Página 49 ---
49
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Windows Hello enhanced sign-in security
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Windows Hello biometrics also supports enhanced sign-in security, which uses specialized 
hardware and software components to raise the security bar even higher for biometric sign in. 
Enhanced sign-in security biometrics uses VBS and the TPM to isolate user authentication 
processes and data and secure the pathway by which the information is communicated. 
These specialized components protect against a class of attacks that include biometric 
sample injection, replay, tampering, and more. For example, fingerprint readers must 
implement Secure Device Connection Protocol, which uses key negotiation and a Microsoft-
issued certificate to protect and securely store user authentication data. For facial 
recognition, components such as the Secure Devices (SDEV) table and process isolation with 
trustlets help prevent additional class of attacks. 
Enhanced Sign-in Security is configured by device manufacturers during the manufacturing 
process and is most typically supported in Secured-core PC. For facial recognition, Enhanced 
Sign-in Security is supported by Intel USB and AMD USB processor/camera combinations 
including specific modules from manufacturers. Intel MIPI will also be supported starting with 
version Windows 11 2022 Update. Fingerprint authentication is available across all processor 
types. Please reach out to your OEM for support details.
Microsoft Authenticator 
The Microsoft Authenticator app, which runs on iOS and Android devices, is a perfect 
companion to help keep you secure and productive when using Windows 11. Microsoft 
Authenticator can be used to bootstrap Windows Hello for Business, so you never need to 
have a password to get started on Windows 11. 
Microsoft Authenticator also enables easy, secure sign-in for all your online accounts 
using multifactor authentication, passwordless phone sign-in, or password autofill. The 
Authenticator app is secured with a public/private key pair in hardware-backed storage such 
as the Keychain in iOS and Keystore on Android. IT admins can ensure employees are actively 
using Microsoft Authenticator, and that it’s set up correctly to back up credentials.
Individual users can back up their credentials to the cloud by enabling the encrypted backup 
option in settings. They can also see their sign-in history and security settings for Microsoft 
personal, work, or school accounts. 
Using this secure app for authentication and authorization enables people to be in control 
of how, where, and when their credentials are used. Adopting this approach benefits both 
organizations and individual users, who can secure both work and personal accounts.
Learn more about Microsoft Authenticator.

--- Página 50 ---
50
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Identity management services and Fast ID Online v2.0 (FIDO2) support
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
The open industry FIDO Alliance was established to promote authentication standards that 
reduce reliance on passwords. Fast Identity Online (FIDO) defined CTAP and WebAuthN 
specifications are becoming the open standard for providing strong authentication that 
is non-phishable, user-friendly, and privacy-respecting with implementations from major 
platform providers and relying parties. FIDO standards and certifications are becoming 
recognized as the leading standard for creating secure authentication solutions across 
enterprises, governments, and consumer markets.
Windows 11 can also use external FIDO2 security keys for authentication alongside or 
in addition to Windows Hello which is also a FIDO2 certified passwordless solution. As 
a result, Windows 11 can be used as a FIDO authenticator for many popular identity 
management services.
Simplified sign in for education
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: including Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education and Education.
Windows 11 supports federated sign in with external education identity management 
services. For students unable to type easily or remember complex passwords, this capability 
enables secure sign in through methods like QR codes or pictures.
Smart cards
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: including Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, 
Pro Education and Education.
Organizations also have the option of using smart cards, an authentication method that 
pre-dates biometric sign in. Smart cards are tamper-resistant, portable storage devices that 
can enhance Windows security when authenticating clients, signing code, securing e-mail, 
and signing in with Windows domain accounts.
Smart cards provide:
•	Ease of use in scenarios such as healthcare where employees need to sign in and out 
quickly and/or without using their hands, or when sharing a workstation.
•	Isolation of security-critical computations that involve authentication, digital signatures, 
and key exchange from other parts of the computer. These computations are performed 
on the smart card.

--- Página 51 ---
51
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
•	Portability of credentials and other private information between computers at work, home, 
or on the road
Smart cards can only be used to sign into domain accounts, not local accounts. When a 
password is used to sign into a domain account, Windows uses the Kerberos version 5 (v5) 
protocol for authentication. If you use a smart card, the operating system uses Kerberos v5 
authentication with X.509 v3 certificates.
Account lockout secure defaults
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
New devices with Windows 11 2022 Update installed will have account lockout polices 
that are secure by default. These policies will mitigate brute-force attacks, such as hackers 
attempting to access Windows devices via the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).
Enhanced phishing protection in Microsoft Defender SmartScreen
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
As malware protection and other safeguards evolve, cybercriminals look for new ways to 
circumvent security measures. Phishing has emerged as a leading threat, with apps and 
websites designed to steal credentials by tricking people into voluntarily entering passwords. 
As a result, many organizations are transitioning to the ease and security of passwordless 
sign in with Windows Hello or Windows Hello for Business. 
However, people who are still using passwords can also benefit from powerful credential 
protection in Windows 11. Microsoft Defender SmartScreen now includes enhanced phishing 
protection to automatically detect when you enter your Microsoft password into any app 
or website. Windows then identifies if the app or site is securely authenticating to Microsoft 
and warns if your credentials are at risk. Because you are alerted at the moment of potential 
credential theft, you can take pre-emptive action before your password is used against you 
or your organization.
Access management
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Windows Hello for Business is configured by Group Policy in Active Directory or a mobile 
device management (MDM) policy in Microsoft Endpoint Manager and other MDM solutions. 
IT administrators can set policies that strengthen security and also enable group setup of 
multifactor authentication for a single sign-in experience. With Windows Hello for Business, 
IT administrators can also create conditional access policies, such as allowing users to only 
access approved networks.

--- Página 52 ---
52
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Access control in Windows ensures that shared resources are available to users and groups 
other than the resource’s owner and are protected from unauthorized use. IT administrators 
can manage users’, groups’, and computers’ access to objects and assets on a network or 
computer. After a user is authenticated, the Windows operating system implements the 
second phase of protecting resources by using built-in authorization and access control 
technologies to determine if an authenticated user has the correct permissions.
Access Control Lists (ACL) describe the permissions for a specific object and can also contain 
System Access Control Lists (SACL). SACLs provide a way to audit specific system level events, 
such as when a user attempt to access file system objects. These events are essential for 
tracking activity for objects that are sensitive or valuable and require extra monitoring. Being 
able to audit when a resource attempts to read or write part of the operating system is 
critical to understanding a potential attack.
IT administrators can refine the application and management of access to:
•	Protect a greater number and variety of network resources from misuse.
•	Provision users to access resources in a manner that is consistent with organizational 
policies and the requirements of their jobs. Organizations can implement the principle of 
least privileged access, which asserts that users should be granted access only to the data 
and operations they require to perform their jobs.
•	Update users’ ability to access resources on a regular basis as an organization’s policies 
change or as users’ jobs change.
•	Support evolving workplace needs, including access from hybrid or remote locations, or 
from a rapidly expanding array of devices including tablets and mobile phones.
•	Identify and resolve access issues when legitimate users are unable to access resources 
that they need to perform their jobs.
Learn more about Access Control.
Advanced credential protection
In addition to adopting passwordless sign in, organizations can strengthen security for user 
and domain credentials with Windows Credential Guard and Windows Defender Remote 
Credential Guard.
Windows Credential Guard
Note: This section applies to Windows 11 Enterprise.
Enabled by default in Windows 11 Enterprise, Windows Credential Guard uses hardware-
backed, virtualization-based security (VBS) to protect against credential theft. With Windows

--- Página 53 ---
53
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Credential Guard, the Local Security Authority (LSA) stores and protects secrets in an isolated 
environment that is not accessible to the rest of the operating system. LSA uses remote 
procedure calls to communicate with the isolated LSA process. 
By protecting the LSA process with virtualization-based security, Windows Credential Guard 
shields systems from credential theft attack techniques like pass-the-hash or pass-the-ticket. 
It also helps prevent malware from accessing system secrets even if the process is running 
with admin privileges. 
Window Defender Remote Credential Guard helps you protect your credentials over a Remote 
Desktop connection by redirecting the Kerberos requests back to the device that is requesting 
the connection. It also provides single sign-on experiences for Remote Desktop sessions.
Administrator credentials are highly privileged and must be protected. When you use 
Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard to connect during Remote Desktop sessions 
your credential and credential derivatives are never passed over the network to the target 
device. If the target device is compromised, your credentials are not exposed.
The following diagram shows how a standard Remote Desktop session to a server without 
Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard works:
Remote Desktop connection to a server without 
Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard
Single-Sign-on
Kerberos
NTLM
Access to services from server
Prevent Pass-the-Hash
Prevent use of credentials after disconnection
= Credentials
•	 Credentials sent to server
•	 Credentials are not protected from 
attackers on remote host
•	 Attacker can continue to use 
credentials after disconnection
The following diagrams help understand how Windows Defender Remote Credential 
Guard works, what it helps to protect against, and compares it with the Restricted Admin 
mode option:

--- Página 54 ---
54
Privacy

--- Página 55 ---
55
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Remote Desktop connection to a server with Windows 
Defender Remote Credential Guard
Restricted admin mode 
Kerberos
NTLM
Access to services from server
Prevent Pass-the-Hash
Prevent use of credentials after disconnection
Kerberos
NTLM
Access to services from server
Prevent Pass-the-Hash
Prevent use of credentials after disconnection
= Credentials
= Credential protection
•	 Credentials protected by Windows 
Defender Remote Credential Guard
•	 Connect to other systems using SSO
•	 Host must support Windows Defender 
Remote Credential Guard
•	 Credentials used are remote server local 
admin credentials
•	 Connect to other systems using the host’s 
identity
•	 Host must support Restricted Admin mode
•	 Highest protection level
•	 Requires user account administrator rights
As illustrated, Windows Defender Remote Credential Guard blocks NTLM (allowing only Kerberos), 
helping to prevent pass-the-hash attacks and malicious use of credentials after disconnection.

--- Página 56 ---
56
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Privacy controls
Privacy: Your data, powering your experiences, controlled by you. Privacy is becoming 
top of mind for customers, who want to know who is using their data and why. They also 
need to know how to control and manage the data that is being collected—so providing 
transparency and control over this personal data is essential. At Microsoft we are focused 
on protecting the privacy and confidentiality of your data and will only use it in a way that is 
consistent with your expectations. 
Customers can use the Microsoft Microsoft Privacy dashboard to view, export, and delete 
their information, giving them further transparency and control. They can also use the 
Microsoft Privacy Report to learn more about Windows data collection and how to manage it. 
For enterprises we provide a guide for Windows Privacy Compliance that provides additional 
details on the available controls and transparency. 
Track app usage
Prominent system tray icons show users when resources and apps like microphones and 
location are in use. A description of the app and its activity are presented in a simple tooltip 
that appears when you hover over an icon with your cursor. Apps can also make use of new 
Windows APIs to support Quick Mute functionality and more.

--- Página 57 ---
57
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Every Microsoft customer should be able to use our products secure in the knowledge 
that we will protect their privacy and give them the information and tools they need to 
easily make privacy decisions with confidence. Accessed in Settings, the new app usage 
history feature gives users a seven-day history of resource access for Location, Camera, 
Microphone, Phone Calls, Messaging, Contacts, Pictures, Videos, Music library, Screenshots, 
and other apps. 
This information helps you determine if an app is behaving as expected, so that you can 
change the app’s access to resources as desired.

--- Página 58 ---
58
Cloud 
Services

--- Página 59 ---
59
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Today’s workforce has more freedom and mobility than ever before, and the risk of 
data exposure is also at its highest. We are focused on getting customers to the cloud 
to benefit from modern hybrid workstyles while improving security management. Built 
on zero-trust principles, Windows 11 works with Microsoft cloud services to safeguard 
sensitive information while controlling access and mitigating threats.
From identity and device management to Office apps and data storage, Windows 11 and 
integrated cloud services can help improve productivity, security, and resilience anywhere. 
Protecting your work information
Azure Active Directory
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education. AAD is sold separately.
Microsoft Azure Active Directory is a comprehensive cloud-based identity management 
solution that helps enable secure access to applications, networks, and other resources and 
guard against threats. Azure Active Directory can also be used with Windows Autopilot for 
zero-touch provisioning of devices preconfigured with corporate security policies.

--- Página 60 ---
60
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Organizations can deploy Azure Active Directory joined devices to enable access to both 
cloud and on-premises apps and resources. Access to resources can be controlled based 
on Azure AD account and Conditional Access policies applied to the device. By registering 
devices with Azure Active Directory—also called Workplace joined—you can also support 
users in bring your own device (BYOD) or mobile device scenarios. Credentials are 
authenticated and bound to the joined device and cannot be transferred to another.
To provide more security and control for IT and a seamless experience for end users, Azure 
Active Directory works with apps and services including on-premises software and thousands 
of software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications. Azure Active Directory protections include single 
sign-on, multifactor authentication, conditional access policies, identity protection, identity 
governance, and privileged identity management.
Windows 11 works with Azure Active Directory to provide secure access, identity 
management, and single sign-on to apps and services from anywhere. Windows has built-
in settings to add work or school accounts by syncing the device configuration to an Active 
Directory or Azure Active Directory domain.

--- Página 61 ---
61
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
When a device is Azure Active Directory joined and managed with Microsoft Endpoint 
Manager⁶, it will offer the following security benefits:
•	Default managed user and device settings and policies
•	Single sign-on to all Microsoft Online Services
•	Full suite of authentication management capabilities using Windows Hello for Business
•	Single sign-on (SSO) to enterprise and SaaS applications 
•	No use of consumer Microsoft Account identity

Organizations and users can join or register their Windows devices with Azure AD to get 
a seamless experience to both native and web applications. In addition, users can setup 
Windows Hello for Business or FIDO2 security keys with Azure AD and benefit from greater 
security with passwordless authentication. In combination with Microsoft Endpoint Manager, 
Azure AD offers a powerful security control through Conditional Access to protect access to 
organizational resources to healthy and compliant devices. Note that Azure Active Directory 
is only supported on Windows Pro and Enterprise editions.
Learn more about the available subscriptions and pricing for Azure Active Directory.
Modern device management (MDM)
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Windows 11 supports modern device management so that IT pros can manage company 
security policies and business applications without compromising user privacy on corporate 
or employee-owned devices. With MDM solutions, IT can manage Windows 11 using 
industry-standard protocols. To simplify setup for users, management features are built 
directly into Windows, eliminating the need for a separate MDM client. 
Windows 11 built-in management features include:
•	The enrollment client, which enrolls and configures the device to communicate with the 
enterprise management server.
•	The management client, which periodically synchronizes with the management server to 
check for updates and apply the latest policies set by IT.

Learn more about the MDM protocols: [MS-MDM]: Mobile Device Management Protocol and 
[MS-MDE2]: Mobile Device Enrollment Protocol Version 2.

--- Página 62 ---
62
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
MDM security baseline
Windows 11 can be configured with Microsoft’s MDM security baseline backed by ADMX 
policies, which functions like the Microsoft GP-based security baseline. The security baseline 
enables IT administrators to easily address security concerns and compliance needs for 
modern cloud-managed devices.
The MDM security baseline includes policies for:
•	Microsoft inbox security technology such as BitLocker, Windows Defender for 
SmartScreen, virtualization-based security, Windows Defender Exploit Guard, Microsoft 
Defender Antivirus, and Windows Firewall.
•	Restricting remote access to devices.
•	Setting credential requirements for passwords and PINs.
•	Restricting use of legacy technology.
Microsoft Endpoint Manager14
Microsoft Endpoint Manager is sold separately. Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: 
Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, and Education.
Microsoft Endpoint Manager is a comprehensive endpoint management solution that helps 
secure, deploy, and manage users, apps, and devices. Endpoint Manager brings together 
technologies like Microsoft Intune, Microsoft Configuration Manager and Windows 
Autopilot to simplify provisioning, configuration management, and software updates across 
your organization.
Endpoint Manager works with Azure Active Directory to manage security features and 
processes including multifactor authentication. 
You can cut costs while securing and managing remote PCs through the cloud in 
compliance with your company’s policies.15 For example, you save time and money by 
provisioning preconfigured devices to remote employees using Windows Autopilot for 
zero-touch deployment. 
Windows 11 enables IT professionals move to the cloud while consistently enforcing 
security policies. Windows 11 provides expanded support for Group Policy administrative 
templates (ADMX-backed policies) in MDM solutions like Microsoft Endpoint Manager, 
enabling IT professionals to easily apply the same security policies to both on-premises 
and remote devices.
Learn more about Microsoft Endpoint Manager.

--- Página 63 ---
63
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Remote Wipe
When a device is lost or stolen, IT administrators might want to remotely wipe data stored 
in memory and hard disks. A help desk agent might also want to reset devices to fix issues 
encountered by remote workers.
Windows 11 supports the Remote Wipe configuration service provider (CSP) so that MDM 
solutions can remotely initiate any of the following operations:
•	Reset the device and remove user accounts and data.
•	Reset the device and clean the drive.
•	Reset the device but persist user accounts and data.
Windows Autopatch
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Enterprise with an E3 or E5 plan (or subscription).
Updating software and resolving vulnerabilities is an ongoing process, and IT administrators 
anticipate software updates on the second Tuesday of the month with some trepidation. The 
fear that an update may introduce new issues into the system must be weighed against the 
benefits of closing potential gaps in protection and realizing gains from new features.
With the Autopatch service, IT teams can delegate management of updates to Windows 
10/11, Microsoft Edge, and Microsoft 365 apps to Microsoft. Under the hood, Autopatch 
takes over configuration of the policies and deployment service of Windows Update for 
Business. What the customer gets are endpoints that are up to date, thanks to dynamically 
generated rings for progressive deployment that will pause and/or roll back updates (where 
possible) when issues arise. 
The goal is to provide peace of mind to IT pros, encourage rapid adoption of updates, and to 
reduce bandwidth required to deploy them successfully, thereby closing gaps in protection 
that may have been open to exploitation by malicious actors.
Learn more about Windows AutoPatch.
Secured-core configuration lock (config lock)
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
In an enterprise organization, IT administrators enforce policies on their corporate devices 
to protect the OS and keep devices in a compliant state by preventing users from changing 
configurations and creating configuration drift. Configuration drift occurs when users with 
local admin rights change settings and put the device out of sync with security policies. 
Devices in a non-compliant state can be vulnerable until the next sync and configuration 
reset with the MDM.

--- Página 64 ---
64
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Secured-core configuration lock (config lock) is a Secured-core PC (SCPC) feature that 
prevents users from making unwanted changes to security settings. With config lock, the OS 
monitors the registry keys that configure each feature and when it detects a drift, reverts to 
the IT-desired SCPC state in seconds.
Learn more about Windows 11 with config lock.
Windows Autopilot and zero-touch deployment
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Traditionally, IT pros spend significant time building and customizing images that will later 
be deployed to devices. Windows Autopilot introduces a new approach with a collection 
of technologies used to set up and pre-configure new devices, getting them ready for 
productive use and ensuring they are delivered locked down and compliant with corporate 
security policies.
•	From a user perspective, it only takes a few simple operations to get their device ready 
for use.
•	From an IT pro perspective, the only interaction required from the end user is to connect 
to a network and verify their credentials. After that point setup is automated.
Windows Autopilot enables you to:
•	Automatically join devices to Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) or Active Directory via 
Hybrid Azure AD Join. For more information about the differences between these two join 
options, see Introduction to device management in Azure Active Directory.
•	Auto-enroll devices into MDM services, such as Microsoft Intune (Requires an Azure AD 
Premium subscription for configuration).
•	Automatic upgrade to Enterprise Edition if required.
•	Restrict the Administrator account creation.
•	Create and auto-assign devices to configuration groups based on a device’s profile.
•	Customize OOBE content specific to the organization.
Existing devices can also be quickly prepared for a new user with Windows Autopilot Reset. 
The reset capability is also useful in break/fix scenarios to quickly bring a device back to a 
business-ready state.
Learn more about Windows Autopilot.

--- Página 65 ---
65
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Universal Print
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Enterprise and Education.
Unlike traditional print solutions that rely on Windows print servers, Universal Print is a 
Microsoft hosted cloud subscription service that supports a zero-trust security model by 
enabling network isolation of printers, including the Universal Print connector software, from 
the rest of the organization’s resources.16 Client devices do not need to be on the same local 
network as the printers.
Universal Print supports zero-trust security by requiring that:
•	Each connection to Universal Print cloud service requires authentication that has been 
validated by Azure AD. A hacker would have to have knowledge of the right credentials to 
successfully connect to the Universal Print service.
•	Every connection established by the client, the printer, or another cloud services to the 
Universal Print cloud service uses TLS 1.2 protection. This protects network snooping of 
traffic to gain access to sensitive data.
•	Each acting client app must register with Azure AD and specify the set of permission 
scopes it requires. Microsoft’s own acting client apps—for example the Universal Print 
connector—are registered with the Azure AD service and customers consent to the 
required permission scopes as part of onboarding the app.
•	Each authentication with Azure AD from an acting client app cannot extend the 
permission scope as defined by the acting client app. This prevents the app from 
requesting additional permissions if the app is breached.
Additionally, Windows 11 includes MDM support to simplify printer setup for user. With 
initial support from Microsoft Endpoint Manager, admins can now configure policies to 
provision specific printers onto the user’s Windows devices.
Learn more about Universal Print.
Microsoft Azure Attestation Service 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Remote attestation helps ensure that devices are compliant with security policies and 
operating in a trusted state before they are allowed access to resources. Microsoft Intune 
integrates with Microsoft Azure Attestation Service to review Windows device health 
comprehensively and connect this information with AAD conditional access.

--- Página 66 ---
66
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Attestation policies are configured in the Microsoft Azure Attestation Service which 
can then:
•	Verify the integrity of evidence provided by the Windows Attestation component by 
validating the signature and ensuring the Platform Configuration Registers (PCRs) match 
the values recomputed by replaying the measured boot log.
•	Verify that the TPM has a valid Attestation Identity Key issued by the authenticated TPM.
•	Verify that security features are in the expected states.
Once this verification is complete the attestation service returns a signed report with 
the security features states to the relying party—such as Microsoft Intune—to assess 
the trustworthiness of the platform relative to the admin-configured device compliance 
specifications.
Conditional access is then granted or denied based on the device’s compliance.
Azure Code Signing
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro Education, 
and Education.
Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC) in Windows 11 enables customers to 
define policies for controlling what is allowed to run on their devices. WDAC policies can be 
remotely applied to devices using an MDM solution like Microsoft Endpoint Manager.
To simplify WDAC enablement, organizations can take advantage of Azure Code Signing, a 
secure and fully managed service for signing WDAC policies and apps. 
Microsoft OneDrive
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education.
OneDrive provides additional security, backup, and restore options for your important files. 
OneDrive stores and protects your files in the cloud, allowing you to access them from 
your laptop, desktop, and mobile devices. Plus, OneDrive provides an excellent solution 
for backing up your folders. If your device is lost or stolen, you can quickly recover all your 
important files from the cloud.
Learn more about OneDrive.

--- Página 67 ---
67
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
In the event of a ransomware attack, OneDrive can enable recovery. And if you’ve 
configured backups in OneDrive, you have additional options to mitigate and recover from a 
ransomware attack. Learn more about how to recover from a ransomware attack using Office 
365 and how to restore from your OneDrive.
Protecting your personal information
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: including Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, 
Pro Education, and Education.
Microsoft Account
When you add your Microsoft Account to Windows 11, you can bring all your Windows, 
Microsoft Edge, web page favorites, files, photos, and a whole lot more. Your Microsoft 
Account lets you manage everything all in one place. Keep tabs on your subscriptions and 
order history, update your privacy and security settings, track the health and safety of your 
devices, and get rewards. Everything stays with you in the cloud, across devices, and between 
OS ecosystems, including iOS and Android.
You can even go passwordless with your Microsoft Account by removing the password from 
your MSA and using the Microsoft Authenticator app on your mobile Android or iOS phone.
Find my Device
When location services are turned on, basic system services like time zone and Find my Device 
will be allowed to use location. When enabled, Find my Device can be used to help recover lost 
or stolen hardware to reduce security threats that rely on physical access to devices.
Learn more about how to set up, find, and lock a lost Windows device through your 
Microsoft Account.
OneDrive Personal Vault
OneDrive Personal Vault also provides protection for your most important or sensitive files 
and photos without sacrificing the convenience of anywhere access. Protect digital copies of 
your important documents in OneDrive Personal Vault. Your files will be secured by identity 
verification, yet still easily accessible to you across your devices.
Learn how to set up your Personal Vault with a strong authentication method or a second 
step of identity verification, such as your fingerprint, face, PIN, or a code sent to you via email 
or SMS.

--- Página 68 ---
68
Security 
Foundation

--- Página 69 ---
69
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Microsoft is committed to continuously investing in improving our software development 
process, building highly secure-by-design software, and addressing security compliance 
requirements. At Microsoft, we embed security and privacy considerations from the earliest 
life-cycle phases of all our software development processes. We build in security from the 
ground up for powerful defense in today’s threat environment.
Every component of the Windows 11 technology stack, from chip-to-cloud, is purposefully 
designed to help ensure ultimate security. Windows 11 meets the modern threats of today’s 
hybrid work environments by delivering hardware-based isolation, end-to-end encryption, 
and advanced malware protection.
With Windows 11, organizations can improve productivity and gain intuitive new experiences 
without compromising security.
Security foundation 
Note: This section applies to the following Windows 11 editions: Home, Pro, Pro Workstation, Enterprise, Pro 
Education, and Education. 
Software development lifecycle
The Microsoft Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) introduces security best practices, tools, 
and processes throughout all phases of engineering and development.
A range of tools and techniques—such as threat modeling, static analysis, fuzzing, and code 
quality checks—enable continued security value to be embedded into Windows by every 
engineer on the team from day one. Through the SDL practices, Microsoft engineers are 
continuously provided with actionable and up-to-date methods to improve development 
workflows and overall product security before the code has been released.
Additionally, Microsoft Offensive Research and Security Engineering performs targeted 
design reviews, audits, and deep penetration testing of select Windows features. Microsoft’s 
open source OneFuzz platform allows developers to fuzz features for Windows at scale as 
part of their development and testing cycle.
Windows Insiders and bug bounty program
As part of our secure development process, the Microsoft Windows Insider Preview bounty 
program invites eligible researchers across the globe to find and submit vulnerabilities that 
reproduce in the latest Windows Insider Preview (WIP) Dev Channel.

--- Página 70 ---
70
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
The goal of the Windows Insider Preview bounty program is to uncover significant 
vulnerabilities that have a direct and demonstrable impact on the security of customers using 
the latest version of Windows.
Through this collaboration with researchers across the globe, our teams identify critical 
vulnerabilities that were not previously found during development and quicky fix the issues 
before releasing our final Windows.
Learn more about the Windows Insider Program.
Certification 
Microsoft is committed to supporting product security standards and certifications, including 
FIPS 140 and Common Criteria as an external validation of security assurance.
The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 140 is a U.S. government 
standard that defines the minimum security requirements for cryptographic modules in IT 
products. Microsoft maintains an active commitment to meeting the requirements of the 
FIPS 140 standard, having validated cryptographic modules against FIPS 140-2 since it was 
first established in 2001. Multiple Microsoft products, including Windows 11, Windows 10, 
Windows Server, and many cloud services, use these cryptographic modules.
Common Criteria (CC) is an international standard currently maintained by national 
governments who participate in the Common Criteria Recognition Arrangement. CC defines 
a common taxonomy for security functional requirements, security assurance requirements, 
and an evaluation methodology used to ensure products undergoing evaluation satisfy 
the functional and assurance requirements. Microsoft ensures that products incorporate 
the features and functions required by relevant Common Criteria Protection Profiles and 
completes Common Criteria certifications of Microsoft Windows products.
Microsoft publishes the list of FIPS 140 and CC certified products at Federal Information 
Processing Standard (FIPS) 140 Validation—Windows security | Microsoft Docs and Common 
Criteria Certifications—Windows security | Microsoft Docs.
Secure supply chain
The end-to-end Windows supply chain is complex, extending from the entire development 
process to components such as chips, firmware, drivers, operating system, and apps from 
other organizations, manufacturing, and security updates. Microsoft invests significantly in 
Windows 11 supply chain security, as well as the security of features and components. In 
2021 the United States issued an executive order on enhancing the nation’s cybersecurity. 
The executive order, along with various attacks like SolarWinds and WannaCry, elevated the 
urgency and importance of ensuring a secure supply chain.

--- Página 71 ---
71
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Microsoft requires the Windows 11 supply chain to comply with controls including:
Identity Management and User Access Control
Access Control / Principles of least privilege / RBAC / Segregation of Duties / MFAs / 
Account Management / Physical Access Control
Information Security
Information Handling / Cryptography / Vulnerability Scanning / Encryption / Integrity and Attestation / Confidentiality
Operational Controls
Code of Repo Ownership / Config & Change Management / Asset ownership / Manufacturing Standards
Security Monitoring & Event Logging
Network / Host / Application / Services / DevOps / Manufacturing Security / Physical Security Monitoring
Supplier Security Control
Supplier Security and Privacy Assurance (SSPA) / Supplier Screening / Supplier Inventory
Logistics Security Control
Receiving / Shipping / Warehouse & Storage / Logistics Management
In addition to following the above supply chain security controls, SBOMs are leveraged to 
provide the transparency and provenance of the content as it moves through various stages 
of the Windows supply chain. This enables trust between each supply chain segment, ensures 
that tampering has not taken place during ingestion and along the way, and provides a 
provable chain of custody for the product that we ship to customers.
Code signing software is the best way to guarantee application integrity and authenticity. 
Code signing proprietary applications and software from other organizations greatly reduces 
the complexity of creating and managing application control policies. Code signing enables 
the creation and deployment of certificate chain-based application control policies which can 
then be cryptographically enforced.
Traditionally, code signing has been a difficult undertaking due to the complexities 
involved in obtaining certificates, securely managing those certificates, and integrating a 
proper signing process into the development and continuous integration and continuous 
deployment (CI/CD) pipelines.
Azure Code Signing (currently in private preview) minimizes the complexity of code signing 
with a turnkey service backed by a Microsoft managed certificate authority, eliminating the 
need to procure and self-manage any signing certificates. The service is managed just as any 
other Azure resource and integrates easily with the leading development and CI/CD toolsets.

--- Página 72 ---
72
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Various trust levels are supported to enable code signing in the end-to-end development 
to deployment pipeline—Public trust for publicly released software, Private trust for line-of-
business applications and IT management scenarios, and test certificates for the development 
and validation of inner loops.

--- Página 73 ---
73
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
Conclusion
Designed for hybrid work, Windows 11 is the most secure Windows yet with hardware and 
software working together to provide powerful protection across the device, operating 
system, identities, applications, and cloud services. We will continue to build on our security 
foundations with innovations that deliver powerful protection now and in the future.
Learn how to upgrade to Windows 11 now.
For the latest information and version of this document see windows.com/business/windows-
11-security.
What’s new
New
Azure Code Signing
Enhanced phishing protection with Microsoft Defender SmartScreen
Hardware-enforced stack protection
Secured-core configuration lock
Simplified sign-in for education
Smart App Control
Windows presence sensing 
Enhanced
Cryptopgraphy
Microsoft Pluton
Microsoft vulnerable driver blocklist
Secured kernel (HVCI enabled by default)
Firmware protection in Secured-core PCs
Windows Defender Credential Guard
Microsoft Defender Application Guard (MDAG)
Windows Defender Firewall

--- Página 74 ---
74
Table of Contents | Introduction | Hardware Security | Operating System Security | Application Security  
Identity | Privacy | Cloud Services | Security Foundation | Conclusion 
The information contained in this document represents the current view of Microsoft Corporation on the issues discussed as of the 
date of publication. Because Microsoft must respond to changing market conditions, it should not be interpreted to be a commitment 
on the part of Microsoft, and Microsoft cannot guarantee the accuracy of any information presented after the date of publication.
This paper is for informational purposes only. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, in this document.
Complying with all applicable copyright laws is the responsibility of the user. Without limiting the rights under copyright, no part 
of this document may be reproduced, stored in, or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means 
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), or for any purpose, without the express written permission of 
Microsoft Corporation.
Microsoft may have patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights covering subject 
matter in this document. Except as expressly provided in any written license agreement from Microsoft, the furnishing of this 
document does not give you any license to these patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property.
© 2021 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Microsoft, list Microsoft trademarks used in your white paper alphabetically are either registered trademarks or trademarks of 
Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. 
Part No. 01 October 2021
Endnotes
1	
Microsoft Security Signals, September 2021.
2	
Hypervisor-protected coder integrity, which activates virtualization-based security, is enabled by default on clean installations only. 
3	
Windows 10 Pro and above support Application Guard protection for Microsoft Edge. Microsoft Defender Application Guard 
for Office requires Windows 10 Enterprise, and Microsoft 365 E5 or Microsoft 365 E5 Security. 
4	
Windows Hello supports multi-factor authentication including facial recognition, fingerprint, and PIN. Requires specialized 
hardware such as fingerprint reader, illuminated IT sensor or other biometric sensors and capable devices.
5	
Microsoft Endpoint Manager and Microsoft Azure Active Directory subscriptions sold separately.
6	
Sold separately.
7	
Email encryption is supported on products such as Microsoft Exchange Server and Microsoft Exchange Online.
8	
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 1 and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2
9	
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 2 and Microsoft 365 Defender
10	 Available with a standalone license for Windows 11 Pro, and as part of Windows 11 E5.
11	 Microsoft Application Guard for Microsoft Edge is available with Windows 11 E3. Microsoft Application Guard for Microsoft 
Office is available with Microsoft 365 E5.
12	 Requires Azure Active Directory Premium; sold separately.
13	 Hardware dependent feature available in a future release.
14	 Microsoft 365 E3 or E5 required; sold separately.
15	 The Total Economic Impact™ of Windows Pro Device, Forrester study commissioned by Microsoft, June 2020.
16	 Universal print is available with Windows 11 Enterprise E3.
Appendix

